AHST 1303 (ARTS 1303) Survey of Western Art History: Ancient to Medieval (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to painting, sculpture, and architecture in the West from prehistory through the late Middle Ages and including the achievements of the ancient Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Medieval cultures. Monuments will be studied within their historical, religious, and social contexts, with particular focus on the role of art in society and on the development of style. (3-0) Y
AHST 1304 (ARTS 1304) Survey of Western Art History: Renaissance to Modern (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to painting, sculpture, and architecture in the West from the Renaissance to the modern period, including work by such artists as Michelangelo, Rembrandt, the Impressionists, and Picasso. Artists and monuments will be studied within their historical, religious, and social contexts, with particular focus on the role of art in society and on the development of style. (3-0) Y
AHST 2331 Understanding Art (3 semester credit hours) An investigation into the nature of the visual arts with an emphasis on the issues and ideas that artists explore through their work and how these ideas translate into the artwork. Attention will be given to the interpretation or reading of the artwork and how it may relate to society. (3-0) S
AHST 2V71 Independent Study in Art History (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
AHST 3313 Medieval Art and Architecture (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the art and architecture of medieval Europe and the Mediterranean. The course emphasizes the political, social, and religious foundations of Christian and Islamic art through discussions of mobility (travel, pilgrimage), media (the use of mosaic and bronze), worship (in cathedrals and mosques), and authority (in how divinity and kingship were understood). Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (Same as RELS 3363) (3-0) R
AHST 3315 Renaissance Art and Architecture (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the art and architecture of Italy during the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries. Special attention is devoted to the cities of Florence, Rome, and Venice. Topics include the role of politics, patronage, religious worship, the developing self-consciousness of the artist, and the importance of new techniques. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (Same as RELS 3365) (3-0) T
AHST 3316 Baroque Art and Architecture (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the art and architecture of the seventeenth century across Europe. The diverse social, political, and religious cultures of Italy, France, Spain, England, the Dutch Republic, and the Spanish Netherlands are discussed, with special emphasis upon the impact of Caravaggio, Bernini, Rubens, Velzquez, and Rembrandt. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (Same as RELS 3366) (3-0) T
AHST 3317 Pioneers of Modern Art (3 semester credit hours) Focus on the work of the Post-Impressionists (Seurat, Gauguin, Van Gogh, and Cezanne) and the Symbolists with special emphasis on the artists' contribution to the discourse of ideas and the crisis of meaning in the late nineteenth century. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (3-0) R
AHST 3318 Contemporary Art (3 semester credit hours) An issue-oriented class in which a selection of recent developments in art serve to introduce the ideas and aims of postmodernism. Special attention is given to those artists who are concerned with representation and the visual element in social constructs. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (3-0) T
AHST 3319 Twentieth Century European Art: Avant-Garde and Aftermath (3 semester credit hours) The situation of the European avant-garde before and after its explosive center point of World War I. Special emphasis will be given to the breakthrough of abstraction and modernism's problematic relation to tradition. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (3-0) R
AHST 3320 Art in Historical Context (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the arts and/or architecture of such eras as ancient Greece and Rome or the eighteenth and ninenteeth centuries. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (3-0) Y
AHST 3321 Chinese Art History (3 semester credit hours) Examination of various forms of artistic expression in China, premodern and modern, including arts and aesthetic theory. Formal and contextual analysis of multiple media (ceramics, metalwork, sculpture, painting, architecture, etc.). Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent (3-0) T
AHST 3322 Modern Architecture (3 semester credit hours) A survey of modern, postmodern, and contemporary neo-modern architecture, 1900-present. The course follows a narrative of revolution, collectivity, and belief (modernism) followed by irony, skepticism, and disbelief (postmodernism) culminating in the deadpan, post-critical, profit-following architecture of a neo-liberal economy (contemporary neo-modern architecture). Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) T
AHST 3324 History of Photography (3 semester credit hours) Photography, from 1825 to the present, as a study of evolving styles, stressing key turning points and contributing factors and focusing on a background of the modern art movement and the psychology and events of the times. Critical analysis of the work of various photographers will be included. Topics may include an emphasis on nineteenth century, modern, or contemporary photography. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (3-0) T
AHST 4342 Topics in Art History (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Completion of 050 core. (3-0) R
AHST 4V71 Independent Study in Art History (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R