BA 1310 Making Choices in Free Market Systems (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to decision making in the free market system. Models from economic and decision sciences provide a foundational understanding of how people make choices - as consumers, employees, managers, and citizens. We explore how the creative destruction of the marketplace expands social wealth, creating gains for some individuals and losses for others. Debates, case studies and simulations, introduce the psychological, social norm, and moral factors that influence how markets work and how, as a society, we interact with markets and the limitations that we sometimes impose on markets and choice. (3-0) S
BA 1320 Business in a Global World (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a primer on the impacts of globalization on business. We equip students with the basic facts of globalization and examine the business underpinnings and the institutions that shape globalization. We discuss major trends and the future of international management. The aim is an ability to think strategically and critically about global business issues. (3-0) S
BA 3300 Advanced Topics in Capitalism: Ideas and Challenges That Shape Our World (3 semester credit hours) This course starts with the historical development of business and markets and how these developments shape our current world in terms of wealth and inequality, and the role of free markets in modern society. Students will then learn about contemporary ideas and challenges that affect both business and society such as trade, healthcare, the environment, and tax policy. Students will discuss and debate market-based solutions to these challenges and the potential role for governments and regulations in addressing these challenges. Prerequisite: BA 1310 or ECON 2302. (3-0) Y
BA 4010 ENACTUS Participation (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed for students participating in Enactus for zero course credit. Students in Enactus partner with business and education leaders to take lessons learned in the classroom out to local communities in need of assistance. Instructor consent required. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (3 attempts maximum). Instructor consent required. (1-0) S
BA 4070 Conference Attendance US (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students attending an academic conference in the United States. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4071 Conference Attendance International (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students attending an International academic conference. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4072 Conference Presentation US (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students presenting at an academic conference in the United States. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4073 Conference Presentation International (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students presenting at an international academic conference. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4074 Student Leadership and Mentoring (0 semester credit hours) This course is an introduction to the study of leadership and mentoring, with an emphasis on practical skills, tools and techniques for effective mentoring. This course is a required course for all students selected to participate in JSOM recognized leadership and mentoring programs. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) S
BA 4080 Participation in Internal Competition (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students participating in a Jindal School academic competition. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4081 Participation in Local Competition (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students participating in a local academic competition. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4082 Participation in Regional Competition (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students participating in a regional academic competition. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4083 Participation in National Competition (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to prepare students participating in a national academic competition. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BA 4090 Management Internship (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated if internships differ. Department consent required. (0-0) S
BA 4095 Social Sector Engagement and Community Outreach Practicum (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's appreciation of the stakeholders in their community through appropriate developmental experiences in a real community engagement. Students are required to complete 100 hours of community service and submit specific verification from the community organization of the hours completed. Instructor consent required. (0-0) S
BA 4V00 Special Topics (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
BA 4V10 ENACTUS Service (1-3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for students participating in Enactus. Students in Enactus partner with business and education leaders to take lessons learned in the classroom out to local communities in need of assistance. Working with the community, the students develop quality community outreach programs that focus on one or more of eight core areas: (1) market economics, (2) entrepreneurship, (3) financial literacy, (4) success skills, (5) environmental sustainability, (6) business ethics, (7) female empowerment, and (8) support of the military. These projects will be developed and applied with the intent of creating a better business or educational situation for the community. The target group for these projects will be aspiring entrepreneurs, struggling business owners, low-income families, and school children. Instructor consent required. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S
BA 4V90 Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. At the end of the semester students must prepare an oral presentation, reflecting on the knowledge gained in the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S