BMEN 1100 Introduction to Bioengineering I (1 semester credit hour) This is a laboratory course emphasizing the essential skills and tools necessary to succeed in a biomedical engineering degree plan. Lab activities will include an introduction to laboratory instruments applicable to the field of biomedical engineering, measurement techniques, and basic statistical analysis of real-world experimental data. Professional responsibilities in biomedical engineering will be evaluated as well as engineering ethics. CE 1100 or CS 1200 or EE 1100 or MECH 1100 can substitute for this course. Credit cannot be received for more than one of the following: BMEN 1100, CE 1100, CS 1200, EE 1100 or MECH 1100. Lab fee of $30 required. (0-2) Y
BMEN 1208 Introduction to Bioengineering II (2 semester credit hours) The purpose of this course is to give students a general understanding of a broad range of applications specific to the biomedical engineering profession. Course exercises include team-oriented project, computer-aided design, introductory materials, and hardware and software tools associated with the discipline. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisite: BMEN 1100. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 1300 or equivalent. (1-2) Y
BMEN 1300 Introduction to Biomedical Engineering Computing (3 semester credit hours) Computer programming in a high-level, block structured language with a focus on bioengineering applications. Basic data types, memory usage, control structures, input/output, functions and parameter passing. Program design and software development methodology. Mechanics of running, testing, and debugging. Pseudo-codes, flowcharts and code efficiency. Programming languages of choice are C++ and Matlab. Programming projects related to biomedical engineering applications. (3-0) S
BMEN 2320 Statics (3 semester credit hours) Lecture course. Course material includes vector representations of forces and moments, free body diagrams, equilibrium of particles, center of mass, centroids, distributed load systems, equivalent force systems, equilibrium of rigid bodies, trusses, frames and machines, internal forces in structural members, shear forces and bending moments in beams, friction, area and mass moments of inertia, the principle of virtual work. Prerequisites: PHYS 2325 and PHYS 2125. Prerequisites or Corequisites: MATH 2415 or MATH 2419 or equivalent. (3-0) S
BMEN 2V99 Topics in Biomedical Engineering (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-4]-0) R
BMEN 3110 Biomedical Transport Processes Laboratory (1 semester credit hour) Laboratory course. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 3310. (0-3) Y
BMEN 3120 Biomedical Circuits and Instrumentation Laboratory (1 semester credit hour) Laboratory course. This course will include a brief recitation (discussion) session prior to each lab. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 3320. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (0-3) Y
BMEN 3130 Engineering Physiology Laboratory (1 semester credit hour) Laboratory course. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 3330. (0-3) Y
BMEN 3150 Biomedical Engineering Laboratory (1 semester credit hour) Laboratory course. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 3350. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (0-3) Y
BMEN 3200 Biomedical Engineering Fundamentals and Design (2 semester credit hours) This course will cover the fundamentals of biomedical engineering and design techniques through a combination of labs, lectures, and a guided design project. Students will learn the broad fundamentals of biomedical engineering and also the design process including such topics as ethical behavior, particularly with respect to human and animal subjects, intellectual property considerations, global biomedical engineering, codes and standards, and FDA regulations. The students will receive hands-on training on machining, wetlab techniques, computer-aided modeling and simulation, basic electrical and electronic circuit design and computer programming. Completion of this course will provide students with the skills and knowledge to enable them to be successful in future design courses. Prerequisites: BMEN 3220 and BMEN 3320 and BMEN 3331 and BMEN 3399. Corequisite: BMEN 4310. (0-2) Y
BMEN 3220 Electrical and Electronic Circuits in Biomedical Engineering Lab (2 semester credit hours) Experiments in this course teach students the applications of and skills related to the following concepts: (i) Analysis methods and network theorems used to describe the operation of electric circuits, (ii) Electrical quantities, linear circuit elements, signal waveforms, transient and steady state circuit behavior, (iii) Diode, transistor, and op amp based circuits such as filters, amplifiers, rectifiers, etc., (iv) Modeling, analysis and simulation of electrical circuits in biomedical engineering, (v) PCB design and soldering, (vi) Microcontroller programming, (vii) Signal conditioning circuit design for microcontrollers, (viii) Integration of analog and digital sensors and peripherals with microcontrollers, (ix) Acquisition and analysis of biosignals, and processing both in analog and digital domains, (x) Design and implementation of embedded sensor systems for biomedical applications. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisites: MATH 2420 and PHYS 2326 and PHYS 2126. Corequisite or Prerequisite: CS 1324 or BMEN 1300. (0-2) Y
BMEN 3302 Bioengineering Signals and Systems (3 semester credit hours) In this course, the fundamentals of continuous and discrete-time signal processing relevant to Biomedical Engineering and biomedical devices are introduced. The main time and frequency-domain concepts covered in the course are convolution, impulse response, Fourier transform, and sampling theorem. Credit cannot be received for more than one of the following: BMEN 3302 or BMEN 3402 or CE 3303 or EE 3302. Prerequisites: BMEN 1208 and ENGR 3300. (3-0) Y
BMEN 3310 Fluid Mechanics and Transport Processes in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to fluid flow and transport phenomena in bioengineering. Fluids in biological circulatory systems, devices, and microsystems. Mass, thermal, and multiphase transport in biology. Emphasis on the use of mathematical modeling and computer simulations. Prerequisites: BMEN 1208 and ENGR 3300. (3-0) Y
BMEN 3315 Thermodynamics and Physical Chemistry in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the fundamentals of thermodynamics and physical chemistry. Molecules and chemical bonds, chemical kinetics and reaction equilibria. Topics also include molecular transitions, nonequilibrium processes, self assembly, and interface thermodynamics. Prerequisites: (CHEM 1301 or (CHEM 1311 and CHEM 1312)) and (CHEM 2324 or (CHEM 2323 and CHEM 2325)) and (MATH 2415 or MATH 2419 or equivalent) and (PHYS 2126 and PHYS 2326). (3-0) Y
BMEN 3318 Introduction to Engineered Biomaterials (3 semester credit hours) The properties and processing of engineered materials used in biomedical devices are taught with an emphasis on the chemistry and structure-property relationships that control the mechanical, corrosion, and biocompatibility of materials used in acute and chronically implanted medical devices. Topics include the crystalline and amorphous states of metals, glasses and polymers, glass formation and bioactive glasses, mechanical properties, corrosion emphasizing passivity and galvanic corrosion, phase diagrams, macromolecular bonding and structure, and an introduction to material-tissue interactions related to the chemical stability of implants. The course also introduces basic material characterization techniques including uniaxial tensile tests, x-ray-diffraction, SEM/optical microscopy, potentiodynamic polarization, infrared spectroscopy, and differential scanning calorimetry. Materials covered include the stainless steels, CoCr-alloys, titanium alloys, polymers and oxide ceramics used in arthroplasty, and biodegradable polymers including drug-eluting polymers. Prerequisites or Corequisites: BMEN 1208 and (CHEM 1312 or CHEM 1301). (3-0) Y
BMEN 3320 Electrical and Electronic Circuits in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to analysis methods and network theorems used to describe operation of electric circuits. Electrical quantities, linear circuit elements, circuit principles, signal waveforms, transient and steady state circuit behavior, diode and transistor circuits, operational amplifiers, digital logic devices. Time domain and Laplace transform methods for analysis of electric circuits. Modeling, analysis and simulation of circuits. It is recommended that students take BMEN 3120 with this course. Prerequisites: MATH 2420 and (PHYS 2126 and PHYS 2326). Prerequisite or Corequisite: CS 1324 or BMEN 1300. (3-0) Y
BMEN 3325 Advanced Computational Tools for Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) MATLAB is an increasingly important tool for solving data-driven Bioengineering/Biomedical Engineering (BE/BME) problems. MATLAB is both a programming language and a platform with toolboxes for data acquisition, processing, visualization, analysis, as well as simulation. This course will provide an extensive training on how to use these advanced engineering tools in MATLAB. These tools could work either with hardware or as independent software. Advanced topics in programming and programming skills for solving biomedical problems. Advanced topics in programming and computational models will be introduced in lectures. Class assignments, home assignments, and class projects will be used for practice and training. The course will help students to be better prepared for their junior, senior, graduate study, or professional work. Prerequisite: BMEN 1208. (1.5-1.5) Y
BMEN 3330 Engineering Physiology of the Human Body (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the physiology of the human body for engineers. This course will cover the various levels of structural organization of the body, from molecular, cellular and tissue/organ organization to the whole body anatomy and maintenance. Students will learn to apply engineering tools and concepts to understand normal and abnormal physiology. It is recommended that students take BMEN 3130 with this course. Prerequisite: BIOL 2311. (3-0) S
BMEN 3331 Cell and Molecular Engineering (3 semester credit hours) This course will cover physiological function from a cellular, molecular, and biophysical perspective, with applications to bioengineering design. Topics include protein structure and function, enzymes, the structure and nature of DNA, gene expression, protein trafficking, the cellular structure and function of various cellular organelles. Modern methods for designing, producing, and characterizing novel proteins and peptides will be examined. Students will also learn about energy and the function of mitochondria, cellular communication and the function of the extracellular matrix, cell motility, cell division, cell signaling, and cell adhesion. Prerequisite: MATH 2420. Prerequisite or Corequisite: CHEM 2324 or (CHEM 2325 and CHEM 2125). (3-0) S
BMEN 3332 Quantitative Physiology for Engineers (3 semester credit hours) This course in quantitative physiology will examine systems and organ level physiology of the human body. Content will be geared toward that relevant for bioengineers, with a focus on a quantitative, model-oriented, and control systems approach to physiological function. The topics covered include neural systems, the cardiovascular system, the respiratory system, the renal system, the endocrine system, and the immune system. In addition to physiological function in health, topics related to pathophysiology and engineering treatment strategies will be examined. Prerequisite: BMEN 3331. (3-0) S
BMEN 3341 Probability Theory and Statistics for Biomedical Engineers (3 semester credit hours) Probability theory, independence, Bayes' rule, normal distribution, central limit theorem. Graphical representation of data. Descriptive and inferential statistics with applications to biomedical engineering, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, and linear regression. One sample, paired samples, and two independent samples methods. Credit cannot be received for both courses, (CS 3341 or SE 3341 or STAT 3341 or ENGR 3341) and BMEN 3341. Recommended Corequisite: MATH 2420. Prerequisite: MATH 2414 or MATH 2419. (3-0) S
BMEN 3350 Biomedical Component and System Design (3 semester credit hours) Fundamental knowledge behind design of biomedical systems. Design and implementation of biomedical signal processing. Modeling and simulation for biomedical systems. Circuit and system design method for implantable devices. Software and hardware infrastructure for biomedical applications. Computer-aided techniques for analyzing sampled data. It is recommended that students take BMEN 3150 with this course. Prerequisite: BMEN 3320. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 3402 or EE 3302. (3-0) Y
BMEN 3370 Digital Circuits (3 semester credit hours) Digital circuit design, hardware structures, and hardware description language concepts that underlie the design of modern computer systems and their application to biomedical electronics. Topics include: internal data representation and arithmetic operations in a computer, Boolean logic, combinational logic circuits and sequential circuits. Design of arithmetic circuits, shifters and counters. Design and analysis of synchronous state machines. Hands-on laboratory experiments to design and analyze logic circuits using SSI, MSI and FPGAs. Use of Verilog to design and test circuits. Prerequisites: MATH 2420 and (PHYS 2126 and PHYS 2326). (3-0) Y
BMEN 3380 Medical Imaging Systems and Methods (3 semester credit hours) In this course, the fundamental physical principals of modern medical imaging techniques will be covered, including x-ray, ultrasound, MRI, optical, and nuclear imaging. Emphasis will also be placed on imaging contrast agents, image processing, and multi-modality imaging. Prerequisite: EE 3302 or BMEN 3402. (3-0) R
BMEN 3399 Introductory Biomechanics (3 semester credit hours) The course covers both biosolid and biofluid mechanics. Covered topics include kinematics, stress, strain, equilibrium, extension, and torsion. Topics will be discussed in the context of biomedical engineering tools and biological tissue structure, function, and properties. Biofluid mechanics concepts will include stress, motion, balance relations (balance of mass, and balance of linear momentum), and their constitutive relations as well as flow between parallel plates and circular tubes. The latter lay the foundation for understanding fluid flow in the human body. Practical examples within the human body including examples of bone and artery loading mechanics will be incorporated. Selected basic concepts in biomaterials will be introduced in the context of biomechanical applications. Prerequisite: BMEN 2320. (3-0) R
BMEN 3402 Signals and Systems for Biomedical Engineering (4 semester credit hours) In this course, the fundamentals of continuous and discrete-time signal processing are introduced. The main time and frequency-domain concepts covered in the course are convolution, impulse response, Fourier transform, and sampling theorem. The course also acquaints students with signal processing in MATLAB. Credit cannot be received for more than one of the following: BMEN 3302 or BMEN 3402 or CE 3303 or EE 3302. Prerequisite: ENGR 3300. (4-0) Y
BMEN 3V99 Topics in Biomedical Engineering (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) R
BMEN 4100 Professional Skills for Bioengineerings (1 semester credit hour) This course covers approaches for success leading to a professional career in Bioengineering. Topics include job search methods, interview preparation, and effective written and oral communication in technical environments. Guest speakers will include faculty and invited guests from the industry. Prerequisite: Junior-level standing or higher. (1-0) Y
BMEN 4110 Biomedical Feedback Systems Laboratory (1 semester credit hour) Laboratory course. Lab fee of $30 required. Corequisite: BMEN 4310. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (0-3) Y
BMEN 4301 Introduction to Medical Device Development (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to some of the many factors influencing the design and development of medical devices over a product's lifespan. This course will examine medical devices in regards to ethics, entrepreneurship, clinical studies, regulatory affairs, and quality assurances. In addition to familiarizing students with the process of medical device development, this course helps students explore the variety of career options available to biomedical engineers. Prerequisites: RHET 1302 and Junior standing. (3-0) S
BMEN 4310 Feedback Systems in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) Notions of inputs, outputs, and states. Linearity versus nonlinearity. Deterministic versus stochastic systems. Top down versus bottom up modeling. Sensitivity and reduction of sensitivity via feedback. Introduction to stability. Feedback for stabilization and disturbance rejection. Numerical simulation and controller design via computational approaches. It is recommended that students take BMEN 4110 with this course. It is strongly recommended that students take this course prior to BMEN 4388. Prerequisites: ENGR 2300 and MATH 2420. (3-0) Y
BMEN 4342 Introduction to Robotics (3 semester credit hours) Fundamentals of robotics, rigid motions, homogeneous transformations, forward and inverse kinematics, velocity kinematics, motion planning, trajectory generation, sensing, vision, and control. Lab fee of $30 required. Prerequisite or Corequisite: BMEN 4310 or EE 4310 or MECH 4310 or equivalent. (Same as EE 4342 and MECH 4342) (2-3) Y
BMEN 4355 Finite Element Analysis in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) The course will provide an introduction to the finite element method with an emphasis on applications in biomedical engineering. Traditionally rooted in structural engineering, finite element methods are used in simulating the mechanical response of the human body and medical devices. Theories will be reinforced through practical applications primarily using commercial simulation software. The course will also briefly cover methods of creating computational models from medical image sets. Prerequisites: (BMEN 3399 and ENGR 2300) or (senior status and instructor consent required). (3-0) Y
BMEN 4360 Biomaterials and Medical Devices (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the field of biomaterials used in the design and engineering of medical devices, and to augment or replace soft and hard tissues. Discussion of bulk properties, applications, and in vivo behavior of different classes of natural and synthetic biomaterials. Analysis of biological response and biocompatibility, degradation and failure processes of implantable biomaterials/devices. Overview of regulatory compliance and performance requirements for commercialization of biomaterials and medical devices. Prerequisites or Corequisites: BMEN 2320 and (CHEM 1301 or (CHEM 1311 and CHEM 1312)) and (CHEM 2324 or (CHEM 2323 and CHEM 2325)). (3-0) Y
BMEN 4370 Biomedical Image Processing (3 semester credit hours) This course covers basic digital image processing techniques used for the analysis of biomedical images. Topics include a general introduction to the various biomedical imaging modalities, digital image fundamentals, intensity transformations, spatial and frequency domain filtering, image restoration and reconstruction, color image processing, image segmentation, and 3D data visualization. A large percentage of the course grade is based on laboratory exercises, which require students to program image processing techniques using MATLAB and apply them to digital images. Prerequisites: BMEN 3402 and experience with MATLAB Programming. (3-0) Y
BMEN 4375 Biomedical Engineering Data Analysis (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the data analysis techniques that are used by Biomedical Engineers to evaluate the large data streams that are being generated in the medical field related to genomic data, sensor data, and health care data. These techniques include pre-processing techniques, machine learning data analysis, and data visualization techniques. (3-0) Y
BMEN 4388 Senior Design Project I (3 semester credit hours) First of two sequential semesters devoted to a team project that engages students in the full engineering design process. The goal of senior design projects is to prepare the student to run/participate in engineering projects related to an appropriate industry. Thus, all project teams are to follow standard industrial practices and methods. Teams must carry the engineering project to completion, examining real world and multiple design constraints, following applicable industrial and business standards. Such constraints may include but are not limited to: economic, environmental, industrial standards, team time/resource management and cross-disciplinary/departmental result integration. Students are required to work in teams that include collaborative design interaction. Additionally, cross-disciplinary/departmental teams are encouraged but not required. In Senior Design I, project proposals will be written, reviewed and approved. Initial designs will be completed and corresponding constraints will be determined. All students will participate in a public oral and poster presentation following departmental approved guidelines at a departmental approved time and location. Teams will also submit a written end of semester progress report and documented team communication (complete sets of weekly reports and/or log books) following guidelines approved by the faculty. It is strongly recommended that students take BMEN 4310 prior to this course. Prerequisites: BMEN 3200 and ECS 3390. Corequisite: BMEN 3332. (3-0) Y
BMEN 4389 Senior Design Project II (3 semester credit hours) Continuation of the Senior Design project begun in the previous semester. In Senior Design II, projects based on approved project proposals will be completed. All limitations of the design will be determined and addressed. All students will participate in a public oral presentation following faculty-approved guidelines at a faculty-approved time and location. Teams will also submit a written final report and documented team communication (complete sets of weekly reports and/or log books) following faculty-approved guidelines. Prerequisite: BMEN 4388. (3-0) Y
BMEN 4399 Senior Honors in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
BMEN 4V95 Undergraduate Topics in Biomedical Engineering (1-6 semester credit hours) For organized classes only (not for individual instruction). Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. Student must document School of Engineering content via a written report. ([1-6]-0) R
BMEN 4V97 Independent Study in Biomedical Engineering (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Student must document School of Engineering content via a written report. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
BMEN 4V98 Engineering Practicum (1-6 semester credit hours) This course may be used as an honors course. Student must document School of Engineering content via a written report. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R