IPEC 3349 World Resources and Development (3 semester credit hours) Analysis of resource mobilization, technological changes and economic development from a multidisciplinary perspective. Primary focus on the problems of the less-developed countries. Topics include technology transfer, industrialization strategy, education policy, population growth, nutrition and foreign aid. (3-0) R
IPEC 4301 Political Economy of Industrialized Countries (3 semester credit hours) How can German carmakers be among the best in the world if they are required to give two years notice before firing someone? Why did Swedish firms help to introduce a free universal health care system? Why it is rational for German companies to grant their workers veto rights over management decisions, but not for U.S. firms? Clearly, labor rights, market regulations, and industrial organization differ significantly across the United States, Germany, and Sweden. Yet, economics as a social science typically does not incorporate these differences. On the other hand, political economy analyzes how factors such as the electoral system, degree of business coordination, and governmental regulation shape business strategy. Understanding the effect of these differences is essential for managers designing investment strategies or policy makers developing policy recommendations. Using case studies, this course offers students opportunities to sharpen their analytical skills with real world applications and expand upon black-and-white theories from business and economics. (3-0) T
IPEC 4302 Political Economy of Developing Countries (3 semester credit hours) We typically assume that democracy is good for economic growth. But if this is the case, how do we explain China's economic success? Similarly, economic theory states that governments should not interfere with the market, but why did South Korea industrialize at an incredible pace by doing exactly that while Argentina failed miserably? Why are natural resources a blessing in Botswana but a curse in Nigeria? If we have learned anything from developing countries' experiences, it is that there is no universal "one-size-fits-it-all" answer. This course explores the conditions under which grand theories of development are valid. It is crucial to take these differences in local conditions into account when developing policy recommendations or investment strategies. Using case studies in every class, this course offers students opportunities to sharpen their analytical skills to make sense of a complicated world. (3-0) T
IPEC 4303 Political Economy of South and Southeast Asia (3 semester credit hours) South Asia is the Indian peninsula. Southeast Asia is the great swath of countries from Burma and Thailand through Malaysia to Indonesia and Australia. This is a region of great cultural, political, economic, religious, and historical diversity. This course surveys the region by selectively examining key countries and their mutual interactions. The major countries, which will always be included, are Pakistan, India, Thailand, Indonesia and Australia. Additional countries, which will be included according to interest and available material, include Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Burma, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore, East Timor and New Zealand. (3-0) T
IPEC 4304 Political Economy of Latin America (3 semester credit hours) Addresses historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses case studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current political and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development. The emphasis is to understand the patterns of development and change in the region. (3-0) T
IPEC 4305 Topics in Science, Technology and Institutions (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces the student to important facets of the relationship between science, technology and political-social institutions. The course begins by addressing issues relating to the philosophy of science and related epistemological concerns, i.e. "how do we know what we know?" Issues of deductive and inductive logic are explored, and different viewpoints, including Kuhnian and Popperian approaches to the philosophy of science are examined. The course also examines issues related to the relationship between science and politics. For example, does science promote democracy, and vice versa? Lastly, the course addresses important contemporary topics related to climate change, biotechnology and genetic engineering, artificial intelligence and nanotechnology, and other topics, with the aim of examining the science-technology-society nexus. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
IPEC 4306 Economic Development: Re-Engineering Places and Performances (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to the origins and assumptions - policy tools and program metrics - underlying "economic development" theory and practice focused on the "design" of economic futures for specific regions, states, and places. What metrics define the "targets" of economic development strategies? What comprises success? What evidence lends support and encouragement for such efforts? Using selected case studies of economic development projects and programs, we will evaluate available evidence for indications of the success with which economic development efforts have achieved their intended goals. Finally, we will explore the prospects for a re-imagined economic development toolkit oriented less to rejuvenate and restore past capabilities and more to facilitate the transit to new roles and opportunities. (3-0) T
IPEC 4307 Regional Topics in International Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) Students will explore development or political economy trends in a particular country or region. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
IPEC 4308 Political Economy of Africa (3 semester credit hours) Reviews the economics and politics of development in Africa. Focus is on political foundations of economic performance and relationships between governance, geography, institutions, external forces and economic change. Exploration of negative and positive trends, such as continuing crises, democratization, political instability, challenges of economic management, and re-colonization for export commodity production. (3-0) T
IPEC 4309 Urban Development (3 semester credit hours) Explores the emergence and spread of social, political and economic forces that propel urbanization, urban growth and urban decline in emerging and less developed nations. Focus is on understanding the challenges of urban development that present themselves in lower income societies, and on fostering appropriate interventions to address them by public, private and nonprofit organizations, including poverty reduction, educational reform, employment promotion, shelter improvement, and governance. (Same as GEOG 4309) (3-0) T
IPEC 4310 Environmental and Health Policy in East Asia (3 semester credit hours) Rapid development in East Asia has brought economic wealth to individuals in this region but has also created serious environmental and health problems such as pollution, resource depletion, pandemics, climate change, and so on. This course explores the environmental and human health challenges in East Asia as well as how governments and other actors are addressing them through various approaches to "sustainable development." East Asia is defined for this course as the region encompassing China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and some countries in Southeast Asia, but we will also focus on the role of the United States as it has been extensively involved in this region, when necessary. To help build the fundamental background of students' understanding of current environmental and health issues in East Asia, the course begins with an overview of historical, geographic, socioeconomic, political, and cultural issues in East Asia, and then examines ongoing policy actions to address various environmental and health problems in the region. Students are expected to take an active role in reviewing and discussing the material and, more importantly, in thinking critically about the interrelations of environment and human health in East Asia. (Same as GISC 4310) (3-0) T
IPEC 4311 Regional Topics in International Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
IPEC 4312 The Intangible Economy: Exploring 21st-Century New Growth Frontiers (3 semester credit hours) This course is intended to complete a course sequence [cluster] focused on new growth and change paradigms for 21st century economies and societies. New sources of economic growth especially those related to a rapidly expanding variety of intangible assets reveal new opportunities and challenges for actors and activities at all scales. Intangible assets include a wide variety of entities that generally have been unmeasured even unrecognized -- including new knowledge intellectual capital, R&D, higher-order skill sets, advanced software, machine-learning derived digital data repositories, copyrights, designs, trademarks, brand equity, firm specific human capital, advanced network infrastructure, organizational know-how, advertising, marketing, social media, etc. (3-0) R
IPEC 4313 Human Development Policy (3 semester credit hours) Since the late 20th century, human development theory (HDT) has inspired the way that the world envisions and practices international development, particularly for marginalized peoples and communities. From large multilateral agencies like the World Bank, bilateral donors like USAID, international and national nonprofit organizations, governments, to grassroots civil society organizations, the definition and purpose of development is shifting. Today, much of work of key stakeholders like Malala's Fund, Partners in Health, Save the Children, DFiD, and the Millenium Development and Sustainable Development Goals (MDGs/SDGs) builds on the principles of HDT. This development approach considers "namely, advancing the richness of human life, rather than the richness of the economy in which human beings live, which is only a part of it". HDT seeks to improve individual capacities and human freedom. This course will introduce students to the history of international development policy in relation to the eventual promotion of HDT. Students will learn more about how international development policy, programs, agencies, nonprofits, and donors can work together to improve the quality of life with dignity for those who often face dire poverty, injustice, systemic violence, and insecurity. We will explore key 'freedoms' (political, economic, social opportunities, transparency, and protective securities) that help unleash the potential of individuals to overcome obstacles and become actors of change in their life, community, and nation. This course is recommended for any students who have an interest in working in nonprofit, health, foreign service, international development, human rights, or public policy. Students will complete weekly readings and practices, as well as participate in course discussions and debates. Over the course of the semester, students will have the opportunity to work individually, in groups, and/or with an external agency to write a grant proposal or to complete a research paper on a relevant topic of their choice. (3-0) T
IPEC 4317 The Politics of Illicit Trafficking (3 semester credit hours) This course will examine trends in illicit activity in the global economy. It will engage with how, on one hand, the "dark side" of globalization creates spillovers such as violence, corruption, and public health crises. Yet, on the other hand, illicit markets may help people gain access to better livelihoods to provide for their families or to needed goods. The class will focus on the politics of government decisions surrounding illicit markets, including prohibition, enforcement, and international cooperation. Throughout the course, students will be challenged to think about the intersection of economic and security issues, alongside the applied public policy concerns around control different types of transnational crime. Topics will include several cross-border illicit markets such as illegal drugs, small arms, wildlife, and kidnapping. The class centers around understanding five questions about each topic: Who is gaining or losing from the illicit market? What stage is illegal (production, transit, consumption)? When did the issue area become a regional or international concern? Where does the illicit commodity move? Why is the trade illegal in some places (and perhaps not others)? (Same as PSCI 4317) (3-0) Y
IPEC 4318 Foreign Aid and Development (3 semester credit hours) This class will introduce students to a nuanced perspective of foreign aid and development from a political economy perspective. The class will explore the motives and trends of foreign aid; the development effectiveness of foreign aid; how donors allocate aid; the differences between bilateral and multilateral aid; perceptions of foreign aid in recipient countries; and the unintended consequences of foreign aid, among other topics. After creating a framework with this nuanced understanding of development assistance, the course will also consider different types of targeted assistance to help address global challenges such as climate change, pandemics, and security challenges. Case studies within different regions will ground the investigation of who provides aid to whom, why, and what results. The aim of the course is to understand the politics of foreign aid and the role of foreign aid in development. (Same as PSCI 4318) (3-0) Y
IPEC 4375 Benefit-Cost Analysis (3 semester credit hours) Theoretical and practical introduction to measuring and weighing economic benefits of projects, programs or policies against costs incurred to produce those benefits. This helps to distinguish actions that make good use of resources from actions that make poor use of them. Topics include identification and valuation of costs and benefits, converting between future and present values, dealing with uncertainty, estimating impacts, and accounting for transfers between winners and losers that result from public intervention. (3-0) T
IPEC 4376 Foreign Policy and Public Opinion (3 semester credit hours) This course considers the themes of intervention and isolation, and of pragmatism and prudence, in government making of and in public opinion about foreign policy. Topics involve the domestic and international sources and consequences of government making of foreign policy, as well as of public opinion about foreign policy, including the effects of foreign policy on public opinion and of public opinion on foreign policy, in terms of restraining or supporting government actions, in times of peace and of war. (Same as PSCI 4376) (3-0) T
IPEC 4377 Politics of International Finance (3 semester credit hours) When explaining financial crises, economic theory is often confronted with puzzles such as: A speculative attack was launched against the currency of one country, while a neighboring country with virtually identical economic conditions remained untouched. When economic explanations fall short, analyzing the role of politics in finance can provide answers. This course aims to provide such answers by analyzing the interplay between politics and finance. The first section of the course deals with the way stock markets and banks operate in different countries. The second section analyzes how politics affects exchange rates and capital mobility. The final section of the course investigates sovereign debt and lending. Within these broad topics we will ask and answer questions such as "What factors explain how stock markets respond to political events?", "How do political institutions shape the decision of firms to issue equity rather than use banks?", "Why did investors loose confidence in Thailand's currency but not Vietnam?", and "Why did Argentina decide to default on its debt while neighboring Brazil did not?" This course is particularly suited for students interested in careers in business or government. Future investors and government officials will need the skills necessary to analyze the two-way relationship of politics affecting finance and finance shaping politics. (3-0) R
IPEC 4384 Health and Environmental Policy: A Global Perspective (3 semester credit hours) This course covers emerging issues in global health and environmental policy, with special emphasis on applications of Geographic Information System (GIS) and spatial analytic tools in identifying and responding to physical and social environmental risk factors that impact the health and well-being of peoples throughout the world. This introductory but interdisciplinary course examines contemporary issues in global health and environmental policy and practices. This course helps students understand various social, economic, political and environmental determinants of health, and consider evidences that inequalities in education, income and accessibility to resources influence health status. Emphasis is placed on issues of global health inequality and environmental justice at various levels. Ample hands-on laboratory experiences will be provided on how to utilize various geospatial methods such as spatial analysis, modeling, simulation and mapping with real-world data using state-of-the-art commercial and open source software. Students will also develop skills in cost-effectiveness analysis and health outcome measurement, using a variety of contemporary global health case studies which focus on content areas such as maternal and child health, environmental health, infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria, diarrheal diseases, etc.) and global healthcare delivery. Students may need some quantitative skills to analyze global public health problems, but the level of the analytical components of the course will be determined by the background of the enrolled students. (Same as GISC 4384) (3-0) T
IPEC 4396 Topics in International Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
IPEC 4V91 Undergraduate Research in International Political Economy (1-6 semester credit hours) Subject and scope to be determined on an individual basis. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
IPEC 4V97 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
IPEC 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
IPEC 4V99 Senior Honors in International Political Economy (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S