ISIS 3309 Dental Anthropology (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the wealth of knowledge that can be ascertained through analysis of the dentition of archaeological and modern populations. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3310 Childhood Sexual Abuse: A Multidisciplinary Investigation (3 semester credit hours) Examines childhood sexual abuse in America using multiple cultural forms: psychiatry, fiction, drama, film, news stories, and television. Considers how the definitions of sexual abuse evolve and change from the late 1800s to the twenty-first century. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3312 Women in Management (3 semester credit hours) Earnings differences, employment policies, and other critical issues affecting the status of women in managerial and professional positions. (3-0) S
ISIS 3334 Environment in America (3 semester credit hours) Students will investigate the economic, social, intellectual, and cultural aspects within the evolving relationship between human beings and nature. Students will be introduced to the key themes, events, and personalities that help understand the American environment. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3335 United States and East Asia (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the interaction between the United States and East Asia. Topics include sociocultural differences, conflicts in political ideals, economic relations, and trans-Pacific diplomacy. The course highlights the spread of American culture and the rise of East Asia's economic power. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3V70 Teaching Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Students work individually with faculty members in preparing and presenting course materials and tutoring students. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Must have completed the relevant course with a grade of at least B and have a UT Dallas grade point average of at least 3.000 and instructor and Associate Dean consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
ISIS 4303 Business, Law and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Study of the interactions among business, law and culture from an interdisciplinary perspective. The course examines business tangles, legal complexities, ethical dilemmas, and cultural contradictions in the capitalist system. (3-0) T
ISIS 4304 Trials in American Culture (3 semester credit hours) Through an analysis of multiple cultural forms, students will consider what the contemporary obsession with legal drama reveals about American identities. (3-0) S
ISIS 4309 Diversity and Globalization (3 semester credit hours) This course studies the meanings, processes, and impacts of globalization. It highlights sensitivity to global diversity and examines how global companies cope with a wide array of political/legal forces and transform social/cultural differences into competitive advantages. Topics include conflict resolution in business diplomacy and strategies of managing global diversity. (3-0) Y
ISIS 4310 Health Strategy for Multicultural Populations (3 semester credit hours) This course will prepare students to identify and analyze the nature and roots of health disparities among African-Americans, Asian and Pacific Islander Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans, as well as gender differences within these populations. Students will also focus on health promotion methods, cultural strengths that can form part of the solution to health disparities, and strategies for prevention. Because of the multi-faceted nature of these problems, the course will draw upon readings and methods from the fields of public health, immigration, preventative medicine, the social sciences, and public policy and administration. (3-0) R
ISIS 4350 International Development: Cultural Impacts (3 semester credit hours) This interdisciplinary course explores the social, political and economic factors that shape international development. Central course themes include the history of international development, poverty and economics, education, sustainability and the environment. (3-0) Y
ISIS 4V89 Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (1-6 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) S