MKT 3300 Principles of Marketing (3 semester credit hours) An overview of marketing principles including marketing planning, understanding customer's decision making environment, measurement of market performance, product and branding decisions, advertising and promotions, pricing, and distribution. Special emphasis placed upon applying segmentation, targeting and positioning framework, implementing different pricing methods such as markup pricing and target pricing and recognizing and evaluating ethical constraints when making marketing decisions. (3-0) S
MKT 3320 Product and Brand Management (3 semester credit hours) This course discusses concepts and cases of planning, building, measuring and management of brands and products. It covers topics such as product management, branding, brand equity, product and service quality, brand positioning, perceptual mapping, long term brand management, and the product life cycle. An estimated 20 Community Engagement hours can be earned in this course. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 3330 Introduction to Professional Selling (3 semester credit hours) The course is the introduction to professional sales and sales management. It will focus on the fundamentals of building and maintaining mutual beneficial business relationships. Emphasis will be placed on sales skills such as prospecting, making the sales call, developing compelling presentations, responding to objections, and closing the deal. Additionally, the course will provide insight into channel management such as design, functions, logistics, supply chain, and channel relationships. Prerequisite: A minimum of 45 semester credit hours completed. (3-0) Y
MKT 3331 Principles of Category Management (3 semester credit hours) In this course, students receive instruction on identifying the business development focus of category management. Our corporate partners contribute to this class by coming into our classrooms and providing for store visits. Our technology partners provide students with access to their services. In this course, students develop an understanding of industry history, terminology, and the business acumen necessary to take upper-level classes in the Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) industry. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 3340 Marketing Research (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of the entire marketing research process, which involves collecting and analyzing data to facilitate better marketing decisions. Specific topics include problem definition, research design, use of secondary data, collecting primary data, designing surveys, sampling, fieldwork, basic data analysis, and reporting of findings. Students are expected to know basic marketing and have an aptitude for quantitative analysis. An estimated 20 Community Engagement hours can be earned if class project is applied to a nonprofit organization. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (STAT 3360 or OPRE 3360). (3-0) Y
MKT 3V92 European Marketing Studies (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in Europe. Students will learn about the marketing environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have a marketing impact in the area. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MKT 4090 Marketing Internship (0 semester credit hours) This internship course must be directly related to your major in marketing. Students are expected to complete assignments satisfactorily during the semester and complete the online evaluation at the end of the semester. Information related to assignments or evaluation will be available in the course syllabi. Student must meet internship eligibility guidelines available from the internship coordinator. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated if internships differ. Department consent required. (0-0) S
MKT 4320 International Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Analysis of environment of international marketing. Survey of techniques of international marketing management. Prerequisites: IMS 3310 and MKT 3300. (Same as IMS 4320) (3-0) Y
MKT 4330 Digital and Internet Marketing (3 semester credit hours) The course provides an introduction to using marketing in the digital and social media environment. The course places special emphasis on using different platforms and on best practices in email, search engine optimization, paid search, social media, and web analytics. Students will learn how to create and manage a paid search advertising campaign using Google AdWords with the option of becoming Adwords certified (Fundamentals exam required). An estimated 10 hours of community engagement experience can be earned if the project is performed for a nonprofit organization. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (Same as ENTP 4335) (3-0) Y
MKT 4331 Digital Prospecting (3 semester credit hours) The course explores three distinct areas within marketing and sales, namely, digital marketing, traditional sales prospecting, and sales technology organization and strategy. The continuing convergence of the digital marketing and sales funnels has created a strategic continuum from digital lead generation to digital sales. The course identifies the current composition of this digital continuum while providing opportunities to evaluate sales and marketing digital strategies. The course will cover concepts including the difference between inbound and outbound digital marketing strategies, tracking, CRM inquiries in the funnel and lead scoring. An estimated 40 Community Engagement Hours can be earned in this class. (Same as ENTP 4331) (3-0) Y
MKT 4332 Advanced Professional Sales (3 semester credit hours) The course covers advanced personal selling skills, practices and programs. Emphasis will be placed on sales, presentations, demonstrations, advanced sales techniques, advanced communication, and relationship-building skills. Various corporate sales strategies for both consumer and business sales will be explored. This course is intended to prepare students for competitive sales situations and competitions and is primarily intended for students interested in sales careers. An estimated 40 Community Engagement Hours can be earned in this class. Prerequisites: MKT 3330 and (3.0 GPA or instructor consent required). (3-0) Y
MKT 4333 Retailing and Distribution (3 semester credit hours) This course will discuss retailing and distribution including merchandising, positioning strategies, electronic commerce, inventory management, pricing, buying functions, advertising and promotion, and atmospherics as well as customer satisfaction. Additionally, the course will provide the student with a comprehensive view of retailing and an application of marketing concepts in a practical retail environment along with channel management decisions, channel design, logistics and management of channel relationships. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1325 or MATH 2413 or MATH 2417). (3-0) Y
MKT 4334 Social Media Marketing (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches special considerations in social media market research, consumer behavior, and segmentation as well as how to develop a sound social media strategy (content curation) and content management (Hootsuite, Wordpress). The course will also familiarize students with best practices, case studies, and tactical considerations using current popular platforms such as Facebook, Google Plus, Instagram, Pinterest, Twitter, Wordpress, YouTube, and others. The metrics of social media will also be covered using both the tools provided by these platforms as well as by third party tools such as Netbase, Tweetstats, etc. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) S
MKT 4335 Category Buying (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to introduce the concepts of buying, purchasing, sourcing, procurement, replenishment, and category management. In addition the course will touch on primary negotiation techniques, pricing, discounts, and allowances. Finally, this course will be comprised of a "hands on" approach though the use of cases and role plays to provide real life scenarios the student will experience in the buyer's role. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and MKT 3330. (3-0) Y
MKT 4336 E-Retailing (3 semester credit hours) The course provides a review of online sales strategies of products and services through web stores, auction sites, and other virtual platforms. Students will gain a familiarity with successful and emerging web and mobile retailing strategies and understand the impact of those strategies on overall retail sales and the organization's omnichannel strategy. The customer journey will be discussed along with measurement tools to be used for measuring and understanding customer behavior. Prerequisite: MKT 4330. (3-0) Y
MKT 4337 Marketing Analytics (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for those interested in an entry-level marketing analytics position. Students will analyze data to make key marketing decisions such as which customers to target to increase profitability or which new products to introduce to build incremental business. Students will also be introduced to software products used in the analysis of sales, marketing, and distribution data. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (Same as OPRE 4337) (3-0) Y
MKT 4338 Marketing Content Creation (3 semester credit hours) This course is a hands-on course that will prepare the student for the various jobs in which marketing content is created and disseminated in today's marketing and advertising communities. This includes everything from blogging and vlogging (video blogging), creating content for social networks, online advertising, and other digital platforms. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4339 Marketing Creative Skills and Testing (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches the necessary techniques to create and test effective marketing campaigns. Students will purchase and utilize industry-standard applications used by professional marketers to manipulate images for testing in multiple mediums such as paid and unpaid social media, print, outdoor, and video. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4340 Consumer Behavior (3 semester credit hours) This course covers the theories and research findings to understand how and why consumers make purchase decisions. Topics include information search and information processing models, perception, evaluation of alternatives, consideration set formation and psychological aspects of household decision making. Students apply these concepts to practical design and marketing of new products. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1325 or MATH 2413 or MATH 2417). (3-0) Y
MKT 4341 Predictive Analytics (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for those interested in a career in data science and marketing analytics. Students will analyze data from large databases to make data-driven decisions based on advanced statistical analysis like regression analysis and predictive modeling. Our approach will be based on machine learning concepts for analyzing people and firms' behavior in the market. Students will work on several datasets, write consulting reports, and be exposed to industry tools and software. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (OPRE 3360 or STAT 3360). (3-0) Y
MKT 4350 Advertising (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the principles and practices of advertising, promotions and integrate marketing communications. public relations and promotions. Topics include: history and evolution of advertising, advertising research, international advertising, the role of the ad agency; the advertising plan based on marketing, segmentation research, and consumer behavior; integrated marketing communications; communication goals and measurement, advertising, budgeting, advertising buying, media planning and media scheduling; and art, copy, creativity, and production of ads in different media. We also discuss social, ethical, and legal issues in advertising. Effective and ineffective ads are critically analyzed. Social, ethical and legal issues in advertising are integrated throughout the course. Prerequisites: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4360 Social Impact Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Students in this course will engage in a marketing project that addresses an opportunity or challenge in the social sector. The social sector includes nonprofit organizations, foundations, and other social enterprises. Students will be exposed to readings, research, seminars, possible site visits, guest lectures, reflection, and project planning and management as they may create marketing plans, advertising and social media campaigns, or fundraising strategies, for example for a community partner. This course will address the required community engagement experience. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4370 Marketing Projects (3 semester credit hours) Sponsored by local industries, these projects provide the students an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge gained to solve real world challenging problems in the area of marketing. Students will interact with industry leaders and gain some industry specific knowledge. Subject to availability, check with the marketing department before enrolling. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4390 Advanced Marketing Analytics (3 semester credit hours) This course prepares students for a career in marketing analytics. This course involves an introductory look at analyzing data using a set of statistical tools to assist with good decision making and predicting outcomes based on predictive models. The methods discussed in the course are used in many areas for various purposes including cross-selling and customer relationship building. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and MKT 4337 and (OPRE 3360 or STAT 3360). (3-0) Y
MKT 4395 Capstone Senior Project - Marketing (3 semester credit hours) This course is intended to complement theory and to provide an in-depth, hands-on experience in all aspects of a real business project. Students will work in teams as consultants on projects of interest to industry and will be involved in specifying the problem and its solution, designing and analyzing the solution, and developing recommended solutions. The deliverables will include reports that document these steps as well as a final project report, including the challenges faced by the team. Students are expected to make comprehensive marketing decisions via the case analysis method. Also, students will either develop a marketing plan for a client organization or use a marketing simulation to learn how to make and implement comprehensive marketing decisions associated with socially responsible products, promotions, pricing, and channel distribution practices. The course integrates the strategic and tactical aspects of marketing while identifying ethical marketing practices. Prerequisites: BCOM 4300 and FIN 3320 and MKT 3330 and MKT 4330 and OPRE 3310 and Junior or Senior standing. (3-0) S
MKT 4V83 Individual Study in Marketing (1-3 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MKT 4V90 Marketing Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) This internship course must be directly related to your major in marketing. Students are expected to complete assignments satisfactorily during the semester and complete the online evaluation at the end of the semester. Information related to assignments or evaluation will be available in the course syllabi. Student must meet internship eligibility guidelines available from the internship coordinator. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Y
MKT 4V93 Seminar Series in Marketing (1-3 semester credit hours) Discussion of selected topics and theories in marketing. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R