MUSI 1306 (MUSI 1306) Understanding Music (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the elements and basic forms of music, with particular emphasis on the composer's creative process and the listener's participation. Methods of analytical and aesthetic appreciation will be applied to musical examples, with corollaries in literature, history, theater, and the visual arts. (3-0) S
MUSI 1313 Fundamentals of Music (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the elements and organization of music, including analysis and discussion of representative works. Focuses on developing practical musical skills through oral, aural, and written experiences with rhythms, melodies, intervals, scales, chords, and music notation. (3-0) S
MUSI 2112 Guitar Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) A beginning-level performing ensemble. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) Y
MUSI 2113 Pep Band (1 semester credit hour) The UT Dallas Pep Band (or Spirit Band) includes winds, brass and percussion. This performing group, in conjunction with Student Life and Student Activities, will provide music for a variety of events on campus throughout the year. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) S
MUSI 2120 Wind Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) Introductory studies in wind music of all style periods. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) Y
MUSI 2124 Musical Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) May include vocal, orchestra, strings, winds, chamber music, etc. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) R
MUSI 2126 Jazz Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) Introductory studies in the history, interpretation, and performance practice of jazz. Repertoire is selected from a broad range of jazz music. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) R
MUSI 2127 University Choir (1 semester credit hour) Open to students in all majors, University Choir is a large mixed chorus that performs choral works from all periods. No audition required. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) S
MUSI 2128 String Orchestra I (1 semester credit hour) Introductory studies in string music in all style periods. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). (0-1) R
MUSI 2129 Lower-Division Applied Music (1 semester credit hour) Individual instruction in the principal instrument for students pursuing the BA in Visual and Performing Art with Music Concentration or the music minor. This course is offered for voice, piano, guitar, woodwinds, brass, strings, and percussion. Non-VPA majors/music minors may enroll in this course only with the permission of the Associate Dean for the Arts. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. Corequisite: Concurrent enrollment in an ensemble is required. (1-0) S
MUSI 2311 Topics in Music (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to specialized topics in music. May include historical or cultural elements of music, a genre or composer or digital aspects of music. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) S
MUSI 2315 Guitar I (3 semester credit hours) An introductory class in the basic skills in classical and finger-style guitar for both beginning and intermediate students. Course includes hand positions and posture, accurate tuning, music reading, and melodic, harmonic and rhythmic exercises. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2317 Piano I (3 semester credit hours) Basic piano technique and interpretive skills, suitable for both beginning pianists and students with some keyboard experience but little formal training. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2319 Digital Music I (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the concepts and techniques of digital music production. Topics may include midi sequencing, digital audio, and basic editing techniques. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2321 Music Cultures of the World (3 semester credit hours) This course is an introduction to the music of the worlds' peoples. It is designed to introduce students to the many different music cultures around the world. Students will learn to understand different cultures' music as products of unique cultural processes, and will also develop an understanding of the ways in which music functions in local, regional, national, and transnational cultural formations. (3-0) Y
MUSI 2322 Music in Western Civilization (3 semester credit hours) A broad survey of Western music from the Middle Ages to the twenty-first century, covering Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Romantic, and Modern styles. Develops listening skills and an understanding of diverse genres and places works in their social and cultural contexts. (3-0) Y
MUSI 2325 Vocal Instruction I (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to basic singing techniques and interpretive skills, suitable for both beginning singers and for students with singing experience but little formal training. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2328 Music Theory I (3 semester credit hours) Introductory studies in music theory and analysis, keyboard harmony, ear training and sight singing. (3-0) Y
MUSI 2329 Music Theory II (3 semester credit hours) Continuing studies in music theory and analysis, keyboard harmony, ear training and sight singing. Prerequisite: MUSI 2328 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MUSI 2330 Music Theory III (3 semester credit hours) Intermediate studies in counterpoint, music theory and analysis, keyboard harmony, ear training and sight singing. Prerequisite: MUSI 2329 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
MUSI 2V71 Independent Study in Music (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MUSI 3112 Advanced Orchestra/Chamber Music Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) Provides performance opportunities for undergraduate instrumentalists, dancers, video artists, and singers. Repertoire will range from duos and trios to larger ensembles in musical styles from medieval to contemporary. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) S
MUSI 3116 Guitar Ensemble II (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed for students who want to expand their musicianship skills in a performance ensemble. Intermediate skills such as sight reading (linear and chord), stylistic articulation and phrasing, and improvisation will be covered in this course. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3118 String Orchestra II (1 semester credit hour) Continuing studies in the performance of string music of all style periods. In addition to works for strings only, literature may include orchestral works, performed jointly with the Wind Ensemble. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous experience playing a string instrument and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3120 Wind Ensemble II (1 semester credit hour) Continuing studies for wind and percussion players in performance of music of all style periods. In addition to works for concert band, literature may include orchestral works, performed jointly with the String Orchestra. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous experience playing a wind instrument and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3122 Brass Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) This applied music class will study the history, interpretation, and performance practice of brass chamber music. As is the nature of chamber music, students will play brass repertoire in small groups performing in a variety of genres. Typical repertoire will include works by composers such as Gabrieli, J.S. Bach, Ewald, Calvert, and Sousa. The course will culminate with one or more public performances. Maybe repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous experience playing a brass instrument and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3130 Percussion Ensemble (1 semester credit hour) This class will study the history, interpretation, and performance practice of percussion ensemble literature. Students will play repertoire in groups of various sizes. Typical percussion ensemble repertoire would include works by Rouse, Hollinden, and ivkovic. This course will culminate with one or more public performances. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous experience playing a percussion instrument and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3131 Drumline (1 semester credit hour) This class will study the history, interpretation, and performance practice of drumline literature. The ensemble will play as a full battery. Typical drumline repertoire would include works by J. Weber, Gusseck, and S. Johnson. The UT Dallas Drumline will perform at a variety of campus events, including men's and women's home basketball games, Scholars' Day, and Homecoming. Please note, the UT Dallas Drumline is battery only, no front ensemble. Students with only front ensemble experience may audition for a battery spot. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous drumline experience, either battery or front ensemble, and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3181 Instrumental Ensemble II (1 semester credit hour) May include orchestra, winds, strings, chamber music, etc. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous experience playing an instrument and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3185 Chamber Singers I (1 semester credit hour) Vocal ensemble of approximately 24 singers that regularly performs on campus and in the community. The repertoire for the ensemble will be selected from a broad range of chamber vocal literature, sacred and secular music from the Renaissance to the contemporary period. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3186 Jazz Ensemble II (1 semester credit hour) Continuing studies in the history, interpretation, and performance practice of jazz. Repertoire is selected from a broad range of jazz music. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Previous experience playing an instrument and instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 3229 Upper-Division Applied Music (2 semester credit hours) Individual instruction in the principal instrument for students pursuing the BA in Visual and Performing Art with Music Concentration or the music minor. This course is offered for voice, piano, guitar, woodwinds, brass, strings, and percussion. Non-VPA majors/Music Minors may enroll in this course only with the permission of the Associate Dean for the Arts in the School of Arts and Humanities. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). Corequisite: Concurrent enrollment in an ensemble is required. Prerequisites: Four semesters of Applied Music study for the principal instrument, or the equivalent, and approval of the music faculty, and instructor consent required. (2-0) S
MUSI 3322 Music in Historical Context (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the development of music from ancient Greece to the twenty-first century. Topics may include specific periods or musical styles. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Completion of 050 Creative Arts Core. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3324 Jazz History: Roots to Swing (3 semester credit hours) The history of jazz music with a focus on early jazz and musical developments prior to bebop. Topics include jazz music and musicians prior to bebop and the identification of elements of jazz such as improvisation and song forms. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 Creative Arts Core. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3325 Jazz History: Modern Jazz since BeBop (3 semester credit hours) The history of jazz music with a focus on modern jazz and musical developments which occurred since the bebop era. Topics include jazz music and musicians since the bebop era and the identification of elements of jazz such as improvisation, song forms, instruments and instrumental techniques, swing feeling, and different jazz styles. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 Creative Arts Core. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3327 Music in Modern Culture (3 semester credit hours) This course examines modern music from a variety of cultural perspectives and encourages students to bring their own musical experiences and knowledge to the discussion. Topics will include the business of music; music and technology; music and film; music and video games; music and television; music and emotion; music and cognition; music and perception; music and social media; music and science; music and society; music and psychology; music and political economy; music and drama; music and literature; and many more. We will then consider how these concepts have changed through the history of music, from ancient to modern times. This is an upper level course and requires analysis of musical works, readings and a paper or presentation. Prerequisite: Completion of 050 Creative Arts Core. (3-0) R
MUSI 3328 Advanced Theory and Keyboard Skills (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in harmony and composition, analysis of representative works from the literature, keyboard harmony, ear-training, and sight-singing. Prerequisites: ((MUSI 2322 or equivalent) and (MUSI 2330 or equivalent)) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3330 Music Literature: Romantic to Modern (3 semester credit hours) A chronological survey of music from the early 19th century to the present: major composers and their musical styles and personalities, representative masterworks, forms, genres, performance practice and political/economic/social context, plus corollaries in literature, theater and the visual arts. Prerequisites: MUSI 2322 or equivalent and MUSI 2329 or equivalent, or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MUSI 3342 Topics in Music (3 semester credit hours) Topics may include theory and composition, a specific composer, or a genre such as guitar literature, new music or jazz. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3380 Guitar II (3 semester credit hours) Course builds musicianship and classical guitar technique through coaching and performance. Repertoire includes music from the sixteenth century to present-day composers. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 3382 Vocal Instruction II (3 semester credit hours) Intermediate singing techniques and interpretive skills, focusing on fundamentals of correct breathing, tone production, style, interpretation, and diction. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 3384 Best of Broadway (3 semester credit hours) This course will focus on basic singing techniques and interpretive skills, and is recommended for students who have had previous vocal training or experience in performance. Instruction will concentrate on fundamentals of correct breathing, tone production, and diction in English. Students will learn the basics of staging and deportment and will work on scenes from musical theater. Students are required to participate in a concert. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 3387 Keyboard Skills for Contemporary Music (3 semester credit hours) Studies in chord structure, harmonic progressions and improvisation for popular music or jazz. The class may include collaborations with vocalists and instrumentalists. Prerequisite: MUSI 2317 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 3388 Piano II (3 semester credit hours) Intermediate piano technique and interpretive skills for students continuing from Piano I or with prior training. The course focuses on repertoire building and performance of the works of major composers. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 3389 Digital Music II (3 semester credit hours) A project-based course incorporating advanced editing and signal processing techniques. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: MUSI 2319 or instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 4112 Advanced Orchestra/Chamber Music Ensemble II (1 semester credit hour) Provides performance opportunities for undergraduate instrumentalists, dancers, video artists and singers. Repertoire will range from duos and trios to larger ensembles in musical styles from medieval to contemporary. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 4116 Guitar Ensemble III (1 semester credit hour) This advanced performance ensemble will cover musical arrangements over a wide variety of styles, including jazz, rock, Latin, and classical. Students will master skills related to sight reading (liner and chord), stylistic articulation and phrasing, and improvisation. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 4118 String Orchestra III (1 semester credit hour) Additional performance opportunities for string players in music of all style periods. In addition to works for strings only, literature may include orchestral works, performed jointly with the Wind Ensemble. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours). Instructor consent required. (0-1) R
MUSI 4120 Wind Ensemble III (1 semester credit hour) Additional performance opportunities for wind and percussion players in music of all style periods. In addition to works for concert band, literature may include orchestral works, performed jointly with the String Orchestra. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 4146 Instrumental Ensemble III (1 semester credit hour) May include Chamber Music Ensemble, Orchestra, Guitar Ensemble, or Jazz Ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) R
MUSI 4147 Vocal Ensemble III (1 semester credit hour) May include Chamber Singers, Jazz Singers, or Vocal Ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) R
MUSI 4185 Chamber Singers II (1 semester credit hour) Vocal ensemble of approximately 24 singers with substantial choral experience, that regularly performs on campus and in the community. Some concerts may involve staging and memorization. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-1) S
MUSI 4186 Jazz Ensemble III (1 semester credit hour) A performing ensemble of approximately 24 players. Repertoire is selected from a broad range of advanced jazz music. May be repeated for credit (10 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-1) Y
MUSI 4322 Vocal Instruction III (3 semester credit hours) Advanced singing techniques and interpretive skills, focusing on fundamentals of correct breathing, tone production, style, interpretation, and diction. Students will meet in master classes and work individually with the instructor. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4345 Music Performance III (3 semester credit hours) Technique and repertoire of a particular musical medium. May include piano, voice, guitar, strings, winds, or other instruments. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4348 Creating Music (3 semester credit hours) Theory, principles, and practice of music composition. Includes study of notation, musical forms and styles, and the development and performance of new music. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: MUSI 2328 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4390 Senior Project in Music (3 semester credit hours) Intended for students conducting an independent project, such as a recital, composition(s), or written project in music history or theory. Signature of instructor on proposed project outline required. Prerequisite: MUSI 3328 and MUSI 3330 and instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 4V12 Chamber Music (1-3 semester credit hours) Studies in the history, interpretation, and performance practice of chamber music. Students will perform in small groups and perform music in a variety of genres. This course will culminate with one or more public performances. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (8 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-[1-3]) R
MUSI 4V13 Chamber Music II (1-3 semester credit hours) Continuing study of the study of the history, interpretation, and performance practice of chamber music. Focusing on contemporary chamber music, students will rehearse in small groups and perform music in a variety of genres. This course will culminate with one or more public performances. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (8 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-[1-3]) R
MUSI 4V61 Individual Instruction in Vocal Performance (1-3 semester credit hours) Intermediate and advanced-level instruction in singing techniques and interpretive skills. Students must also be enrolled in a 3000 or 4000-level performance ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MUSI 4V71 Independent Study in Music (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R