PA 2325 Introduction to Public and Nonprofit Management (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to give students a broad introduction to public service. The course will also explore the range of alternatives for public impact, whether through traditional personal volunteering and advocacy, service on nonprofit boards, socially-responsible engagement in corporate careers, social entrepreneurship, or careers in government and nonprofits. In addition, a range of topics will be covered from actors and institutions involved in public service, to the various sectors (public, private and non-profits), public service motivation, careers in public service, leadership, diversity and social equity, dealing with difficult people, and ethics - all of which will provide a deeper understanding of working in the public and nonprofit sector. (3-0) S
PA 3306 Advanced Research and Writing for the Policy Sciences (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the relationship between theory and research and will require students to develop a research project that focuses on an area of social policy including, but not limited to, education, welfare, the family, health care and workplace diversity. Implications for public policy will also be considered. Prerequisites: PA 2325 and EPPS 2301 and EPPS 2302. (3-0) Y
PA 3310 Managing Government Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government and nonprofit agencies within the framework of political values and organizational dynamics. (Same as PSCI 3310) (3-0) S
PA 3314 Financial Management (3 semester credit hours) Financial accounting, control, and management for efficient and effective resource use within public and nonprofit organizations. (3-0) R
PA 3333 Human Resources Management: Leading a Diverse Workforce (3 semester credit hours) This introductory course provides an overview to public and nonprofit human resource management. Leadership, motivation, leading diverse workplaces, issues of equity and inclusion, decision making, conflict resolution, performance, strategic management, and other important challenges of personnel human resources management in government and nonprofit organizations. (3-0) S
PA 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester credit hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. (Same as GEOG 3377) (3-0) T
PA 3378 Public Finance and Economics (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on the application of economic theories to understand the role of government. Students will learn how to use the tools of microeconomics to interpret the impacts of government policies. Topics include the role of tax, public expenditure policies, public goods, externalities, social security, and regulation. (3-0) Y
PA 3379 Diversity in the Public Sector (3 semester credit hours) This course will focus on diversity beyond just race/ethnicity and gender, and examine dimensions of sexual orientation, religion, skill level, physical ability, communication styles, and multi-generations in the workplace. Understanding diversity and learning how to manage its complexity is the key focus of this class. Students will examine the importance of multiple cultures in public and nonprofit organizations in work teams and discuss the challenges that come with multiculturalism. Social interactions that contribute to the understanding of difference groups in diverse settings are examined. (Same as SOC 3379) (3-0) Y
PA 3380 Organizations: Theory and Behavior (3 semester credit hours) This course covers the major topics, issues, and contributions in the literature on organizations and management, with emphasis on applications to government and nonprofit organizations. Class readings draw from leading scholars in a variety of disciplinary traditions in order to shed light on the historical development of the literature. Additionally, the course material will review some of the contemporary approaches to the study of organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 3381 Field Research Methods (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to field research, the principal methodology of qualitative research. Students learn how to make observations and conduct interviews, and how to record and analyze data collected through these field methods. While students do not conduct actual research, they will complete a series of practice exercises to develop an individual research proposal. The proposal will be the basis of the research project students will undertake in the follow-up field research course, SOC 4317 or PA 4317 Field Research Practicum. (Same as SOC 3381) (3-0) Y
PA 3382 Sustainable Communities (3 semester credit hours) This course will survey the following topics in public policy and environmental justice: climate change, loss of habitat and biodiversity, water security, and the effects of new technologies. We will examine policy issues in light of the challenges faced by societies to balance the needs of all stakeholders in terms of economic, social, and environmental impacts; e.g., the triple bottom line. Emphasis is placed upon gaining an understanding of the elements of environmental justice and their impacts on different sectors of society through multiple ethical paradigms. (Same as SOC 3382) (3-0) Y
PA 3384 Sustainable Food and Place (3 semester credit hours) Exploring production, distribution, consumption, and preparation of food from a social sciences perspective. It specifically examines controversial issues like industrial production of food, the proliferation of GMO technology, organic and "slow" food movement, geographic and ethical aspects of notions of food sovereignty, inequality, modern malnutrition prevalence, US agricultural policies as well as analysis of food choices based on class, gender, and ethnicity. (Same as GEOG 3384) (3-0) Y
PA 4317 Field Research Practicum (3 semester credit hours) Students will be guided by the instructor in conducting individual research projects in the field. Students will base their field research on the research proposal they developed in PA 3381 or SOC 3381 Field Research Methods. Prerequisite: PA 3381 or SOC 3381 and instructor consent required. (Same as SOC 4317) (3-0) Y
PA 4340 Creating High Performance Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Explores the managerial behaviors required to build high levels of performance necessary in contemporary work organizations. Explores performance management, employee engagement and high quality services, and new discoveries in the neurosciences and psychology that enhance human well- being while creating more productive work environments. (3-0) R
PA 4345 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiations in the public sector. Students analyze the parties, issues and strategies in negotiations and will take part in many negotiation simulations to develop their skills in issues identification and problem resolution. The course will begin with the study of two-party negotiations and progress to multi-party, multi-issue negotiations. (3-0) R
PA 4350 Public and Nonprofit Agencies, Management and Ethics (3 semester credit hours) Leaders and managers of public and nonprofit agencies face unique challenges when it comes to ethics and accountability. This course provides an in-depth look at these issues from the perspective of both sectors, examining where they overlap and where they differ. Topics include an introduction to ethical theories and frameworks for public and nonprofit decision-making; acquisition and allocation of public and private funds; the role of bureaucracy in relation to public policy and management; and strategies for balancing the needs and demands of diverse stakeholders. Using real and hypothetical case studies, this course explores ethical dilemmas affecting nonprofit and public agencies to provide students with opportunities for practicing systematic, transparent decision-making that contributes to an ethical organizational climate. (3-0) T
PA 4351 Managing the Urban Environment (3 semester credit hours) Examination of ways in which the fiscal and administrative policies of local government shape the structure of opportunities and incentives in urban areas. (3-0) R
PA 4352 Emerging Communication Strategies in Public Service Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course reviews current and emerging communication tools and technologies employed by nonprofit and public sector managers. The course is both theoretical and practical, offering a review of the public and nonprofit sectors, while building on effective social media strategies employed in nonprofit and public-sector program implementation, donor relations, stakeholder communication, issue-advocacy, and information dissemination. Regulatory, ethical, and privacy constraints are also explored as students develop an overall appreciation of the potential costs and benefits of social media as management and marketing tools. This course may be offered in a hybrid environment with on-site and online learning. (3-0) R
PA 4355 Managing Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a thorough introduction to the trillion-dollar nonprofit sector, which encompasses education, research, healthcare, art, religious congregations, social services, advocacy, legal services, international assistance, foundations, and mutual benefit organizations. The course explores the history of nonprofit organizations in the United States, qualifications for charitable groups and their governance, and various management issues. Students will become familiar with nonprofit concepts and theories while expanding their knowledge of nonprofit management and developing practical skills. (3-0) Y
PA 4370 Leadership, Democracy, and Ethics (3 semester credit hours) Explores a full range of leadership theories and modern views of requisites for success in positions of leadership. Students will take from this course knowledge of leadership theories and practical knowledge for applying leadership principles in any organizational setting. (3-0) Y
PA 4386 Health and Social Policy (3 semester credit hours) Examines the history and complexities of the American healthcare system and social welfare provision. Particular emphasis is placed on the U.S., exploring healthcare and social welfare in a public policy framework. (Same as SOC 4386) (3-0) Y
PA 4387 Project Management (3 semester credit hours) A practical examination of how projects are managed from start to finish. The emphasis is on planning and control to avoid common pitfall and manage risk. Planning includes defining objectives, identifying activities, establishing precedence relationships, making time estimates, determining project completion times, and determining resource requirements. (3-0) R
PA 4390 Capstone - Social Entrepreneurship: Leading Change (3 semester credit hours) This course provides students with a service learning experience. Students serve as consultants to a government or nonprofit organization. Provides students with team-based experiences designed to produce positive change in the service provision of a government or nonprofit organization. Students produce a group report and present the report to the client organization. Students learn to become effective change agents. (3-0) Y
PA 4396 Topics in Public Administration (3 semester credit hours) Subject matters of current interest. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
PA 4V97 Independent Study in Public Administration (1-9 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
PA 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PA 4V99 Senior Honors in Public Administration (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R