PHIN 1100 Sports Conditioning (1 semester credit hour) This course will emphasize cardio pulmonary endurance, muscular strength and endurance, flexibility, speed, agility, quickness, and balance. A variety of activities, drills, and sports specific techniques will be included. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) S
PHIN 1102 Racquetball (1 semester credit hour) Emphasis on acquiring enjoyment, knowledge, and skills in racquetball. Instruction will vary according to individual ability. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) S
PHIN 1103 Beginning Tennis (1 semester credit hour) Designed for the beginning player; development of basic strokes, rules of play, scoring. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) Y
PHIN 1104 Intermediate Tennis (1 semester credit hour) Designed for the player who has mastered the basic skills; utilization of strategy and tactics in game playing. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) Y
PHIN 1106 Aerobics (1 semester credit hour) Emphasis on the development of cardiovascular endurance by utilizing choreographed routines which may combine basic dance pattern with activities such as walking, jogging, and jumping. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) S
PHIN 1107 Beginning Basketball (1 semester credit hour) Instruction in basic basketball skills, including rules, strategies, and competitive activities. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) Y
PHIN 1108 Beginning Volleyball (1 semester credit hour) Instruction in basic volleyball skills, including rules, strategies, and competitive activities. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 1111 Special Topics in Physical Instruction (1 semester credit hour) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (1-0) R
PHIN 1120 Beginning Yoga (1 semester credit hour) Instruction in the basic asanas and their use in building and maintaining muscle tone throughout the body. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 1121 Martial Arts and Self-Defense (1 semester credit hour) Instruction in basic self-defense techniques. Emphasis on traditional Japanese karate for self-defense and physical exercise. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) Y
PHIN 1122 Physical Fitness and Conditioning (1 semester credit hour) Instruction and participation in weight training and conditioning techniques. Designed to improve muscle tone, flexibility, and endurance. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) S
PHIN 1129 Beginning Swimming (1 semester credit hour) Instruction in basic swimming including stroke development, water safety, and fitness. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 1130 Intermediate Swimming (1 semester credit hour) Instruction in advanced swimming including stroke development, water safety, and fitness. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) S
PHIN 2102 Racquetball II (1 semester credit hour) This course will emphasize the continued development and increase in skills necessary for the game of racquetball. Skill development will continue in strokes, serving, court position, rules and strategies. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) Y
PHIN 2120 Open Water Scuba (1 semester credit hour) Learn to Scuba dive under the PADI diver-training program. This is a hands-on course that will teach you in a classroom and pool environment all of the skills to receive diver certification. At the end of the course, you will demonstrate your skills at a Scuba Park near Dallas. Upon successful completion of four open water dives, you will receive a PADI Open Water Certification card. Recommended Prerequisites: You must be able to swim and tread water. Additionally, you must complete a medical questionnaire. Depending on the response to the questionnaire, you might need a medical release from a Licensed Medical Doctor prior to any in-water training. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) Y
PHIN 2125 Intermediate Yoga (1 semester credit hour) This yoga course offers a more in-depth practice of yoga postures emphasizing inversions, back bends, and breath work as well as essential techniques and information about yoga. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 2150 Soccer (1 semester credit hour) This course will teach understanding and demonstration of the basic skills and concepts used in the game of soccer. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 2151 Topics in Athletics (1 semester credit hour) Skill instruction in the basic fundamentals and style of playing. Emphasis on techniques, conditioning, and play patterns. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (1-0) Y
PHIN 2152 Baseball (1 semester credit hour) This course will teach understanding and demonstration of basic skills and concepts used in the game of baseball. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 2153 Cheerleading (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed to develop the theory and practice of cheerleading skills. It will provide aerobic exercise. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R
PHIN 2154 Cross Country (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed to develop the skills necessary for cross-country. Warm-up techniques, endurance training and cool-down techniques will be learned. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) R