PPOL 4300 Capstone in Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to expose students to real-world policy-making and implementation. A major research project will strengthen the research, information access, and lifelong learning capacities of the students. Prerequisites: EPPS 2301 and EPPS 2302. (3-0) R
PPOL 4301 Law, Science, and Policy (3 semester credit hours) In this course we will investigate how legal structures influence the production of science and the protection of intellectual property. We will also inquire into the manner in which judges and litigants use science in the courtroom. We will cover topics such as the use of DNA in criminal and family law, how judges evaluate scientific evidence (and the value of scientific peer review), government promotion of science using law and other means-among several others. (Same as PSCI 4301) (3-0) T
PPOL 4302 Data and Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the implications of data for policy and policy for data. Policy topics will focus on the relationship between data privacy and security at the national and international level. Students will learn about relevant legislation and its practical and theoretical implications. We will explore contemporary types of data, the ways these data are changing as a result of technological innovations, and the impact of these changes on our privacy and security. (Same as PSCI 4302) (3-0) T
PPOL 4303 The Internet and Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to issues in public policy in the context of the Internet; understanding of regulation in cyberspace; censorship, net neutrality, intellectual property, big data privacy, and bullying issues pertinent to the Internet; and understanding of the use of Internet for terrorism. (3-0) R
PPOL 4304 Mental Health and Social Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course broadly examines issues related to mental health and mental illness as social issues in the United States and related topics and categories of mental health disorders. The course reviews the foundations of mental health and mental illness, major categories of disorders and the history of mental health policy, examines the scope and causes of mental health problems, critically analyzes the major treatment systems of mental disorders and behavior as well as the delivery of mental health services and managed care, and explores and assesses social policy regarding efficacy of community support systems and health directives. (3-0) Y
PPOL 4310 Law and Terrorism (3 semester credit hours) In this course, students confront the complexities of combating terrorism within a system of domestic and international law and rights. The course covers the anti-terrorism policies used by the Bush and Obama Administrations since September 11, 2001. Topics include, but are not limited to, the difficulties of defining boundaries for a War on Terrorism, the treatment of suspected terrorists and their rights under American and international law, the use of physical and psychological interrogation techniques as an information-gathering tool, the mass surveillance of communication, the extrajudicial use of lethal force on suspected terrorists, and the role and legality of whistleblowing and leaking in the publics knowledge of classified policies. In each topic, students learn the details of the governments policy, the competing arguments about its legality made in federal court cases, as well as popular opinion and the leading social science on the policys validity and efficacy. Throughout the course, students also learn about the process of challenging government policy in federal court and the various procedural barriers that insulate executive national-security policy from judicial review. (Same as PSCI 4310) (3-0) R
PPOL 4311 Wicked Social Problems (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the world of wicked social problems-those problems that escape solution by typical, linear problem-solving methods. Students will first learn to identify the characteristics of wicked problems, then study three competing frameworks that support community-wide contributions to problem solutions. (3-0) R
PPOL 4312 Death Penalty, the Law and Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces the student to major topics surrounding the application of capital punishment in the United States. It offers a historical perspective of the evolution of capital punishment, explores the salient case law which established legal precedents related to methods, constitutionality and its application to special offender groups, reviews empirical literature and methods that have investigated the efficacy of the punishment, and examines the controversies of public policies which have existed in support of the death penalty from its inception through present day. (3-0) R
PPOL 4314 Family Violence and Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This is an advanced topics course summarizing the most recent research, theories, and methods in studying family violence and providing in-depth definitions and discussions about some of the most prevalent forms of family violence, prevention and legal initiatives, and the impact of public policies on this critical public health issue in the United States today. It offers a critical analysis of theory, methodology, empirical scholarship, best practices, and public policies surrounding domestic violence, child abuse and neglect, parricide, elder abuse, stalking and sexual assault, and questions the myths surrounding the cycle of violence in American families. (3-0) R
PPOL 4396 Topics in Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
PPOL 4398 Internship (3 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
PPOL 4V91 Undergraduate Research in Public Policy (1-6 semester credit hours) Subject and scope to be determined on an individual basis. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PPOL 4V96 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for students individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PPOL 4V99 Senior Honors in Public Policy (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R