THEA 1310 (DRAM 1310) Understanding Theatre (3 semester credit hours) Lectures, discussions, and performances designed to explore artistic, philosophical, social, historical, and psychological dimensions of the theatrical experience. Topics may include analysis of scripts, the nature of the theater compared to the other performing arts, and the nature of popular entertainments. (3-0) S
THEA 1351 (DRAM 1351) Acting 1 (3 semester credit hours) The purpose of this course is to provide the student with a working knowledge of the fundamentals of the actor's craft. This will include basic acting theory and technique, script analysis, exercises to develop imagination, concentration, sensory awareness, self-knowledge, trust and freedom. This class is designed to give the beginning acting student the ability to act and work individually and collaboratively on lay scripts in a workshop environment. (0-3) S
THEA 1352 (DRAM 1352) Acting 2 (3 semester credit hours) This course will continue the development of physical, emotional, and imaginative awareness as it applies to acting. The methods of creating character, text analysis, and performance techniques will be emphasized. Students will also be introduced to different styles of acting and improvisation. Material may focus on classic or contemporary drama or original creations and will include scene and monologue study and presentation. Prerequisite: THEA 1351 or instructor consent required. (0-3) T
THEA 2311 Topics in Theatre (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to specialized topics in theater. May include historical or cultural elements of theater, a genre or author, or digital aspects of theater. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) R
THEA 2350 Voice for the Actor (3 semester credit hours) Students will learn experientially the basic tools of acting through voice by exploring relaxation, alignment, breathing, phonation, resonation, articulation, vocal range, inflection, and rhythm skills. Students will also develop articulation, listening, and hearing skills for regional dialect correction and acquisition and will acquire knowledge about using their voice in multiple ways to express senses, emotions, images, and intentions. (3-0) R
THEA 2364 Musical Theatre Workshop (3 semester credit hours) Training in singing, dancing, and acting for the musical stage. Includes preparation of performance from the works of twentieth and twenty-first century composers. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) R
THEA 2371 Technical Theatre 1 (3 semester credit hours) Designed to provide an introductory overview of all aspects of technical theater, encompassing lighting, sound, set construction, props, costume procedures, and elementary construction. Practical work will reference theater history and the theoretical foundations of technical theater. Students will be required to attend weekly lectures and fulfill production lab hours. (0-3) Y
THEA 2372 Improvisation (3 semester credit hours) Students will learn the fundamentals of spontaneous creativity through the use of critical listening and response. Exercises and games are used to help students learn to express themselves both physically and vocally. (0-3) Y
THEA 2373 Languages of the Body (3 semester credit hours) Explores the fundamental principles and techniques of movement and/or voice systems and their relationship to diverse forms of theater, performance, media, and alternative staging. Presented in a participatory workshop setting. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: THEA 1310 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
THEA 2V71 Independent Study in Theatre (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
THEA 3310 Theatre/Performance Ensemble (3 semester credit hours) This course is for people who are acting, producing, or managing a production. Time will be reserved for rehearsals, script analysis, concept design, and general studies. Additional rehearsals, outside of the assigned class time, will be necessary to produce the show. This course provides practical use of theatrical studies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3311 Musical Theatre/Performance Ensemble (3 semester credit hours) This course is for people who are acting, producing, or managing a musical production. Time will be reserved for rehearsals, script analysis, conceptual design, and general studies. Additional rehearsals, outside of the assigned class time, will be necessary to produce the musical. This course provides practical use of theatrical studies but is geared more towards acting, singing, and dancing in a musical. May be repeated for credit as performances vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3320 Readers' Theater (3 semester credit hours) Students will read from a script or adaptation to create characters through vocal expression and articulation. Performances are live with minimal props and costuming. Students will improve performance and vocal skills, and will become fluent while reading from scripts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (Same as COMM 3320) (3-0) Y
THEA 3323 Performance in Historical Context (3 semester credit hours) Studies in theater and performance art. The course may consider eras such as Classical, Medieval, Renaissance, Realist, Contemporary, or Experimental Avant-Garde in the Western and Non-Western traditions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: THEA 1310 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
THEA 3324 Technical Theatre 2 (3 semester credit hours) Designed to teach the advanced elements of theatrical skills, including lighting, sound, set, props, and costumes. Students will learn the foundations of the design process and how they apply to the completion of the production on stage. Practical work will apply with students required to attend weekly lectures and production lab hours. Prerequisite: THEA 2371 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3325 Directing (3 semester credit hours) This course presents the principles and working methods of directing theater performance and inter-media expressions. Emphasis will be on the development of skills required to bring a text or idea to presentation. Areas of focus will include imagination and conception, image and metaphor, analysis, planning, development-rehearsal process, and production. Will require out of class lab hours. Prerequisite: THEA 1351 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
THEA 3326 Musical Theatre Performance (3 semester credit hours) Musical Theatre Performance is an exploration of musical theatre in a studio workshop setting. This course will introduce students to the techniques used by actors/singers/dancers to play musical theater scenes and songs dynamically. Basic acting techniques will be taught as well as proficiency in singing, text analysis, movement, dance, specialty character performances, and speech. With guidance from the instructor(s), students will perform sections from notable Broadway musicals in groups and some solos. Students will also audition each week for specific roles in musicals with instructor(s) providing feedback and constructive criticism. May be repeated for credit as performances vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3342 Advanced Topics in Theatre (3 semester credit hours) Topics may vary from semester to semester. They include specialized courses in technical theater, production, performance and administration and are offered at the discretion of the instructor. Past courses include Voice Over and Stage Management. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
THEA 3351 Light Design (3 semester credit hours) Students will learn the fundamentals of designing lighting for various events. Concerts, dance and theatrical productions will be covered. Proper procedures for creating a fully functional lighting design from concept and justification to plotting and implementation, color theory, texture, proper instrumentation, drafting, and justification are a few of the skills that students will learn through the course of the semester. Prerequisite: (THEA 1310 and THEA 3324) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
THEA 3352 Stage Management (3 semester credit hours) Practical aspects of stage management including organizing auditions, scheduling, running rehearsals, tech and performances, assembling a working prompt script, taking blocking notation, cuing, conducting production meetings, and calling a show. Prerequisite: THEA 2371 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3353 Theatrical Makeup (3 semester credit hours) This introductory course covers facial bone structure, corrective makeup, age makeup, various facial expressions, three dimensional makeup, facial hair, basic special effects, and nonrealistic makeup. Students will learn the application process for theatre (large and small size houses), film, and photography. The final project culminates all topics over the semester and the student creates their own character based on script analysis and concept renderings. Lab fee of $30 required. (0-3) T
THEA 3356 Acting 3 (3 semester credit hours) Material may focus on classic or contemporary drama or on original creations. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3361 Performing Shakespeare (3 semester credit hours) Studies of Shakespeare's plays, examining varied artistic and scholarly interpretations in film and performance. The course will blend lectures, discussions, and practical skill-based exercises and will include creative or scholarly projects. Performing is optional. This course is meant for all theater lovers and for aspiring actors, directors, writers, and teachers, with or without experience in acting. (3-0) R
THEA 3372 Improvisation II (3 semester credit hours) This course builds on students' basic improvisation skills to create performances with nuance and depth. Students will explore comedic and dramatic improvisation that will lead to a better understanding of sketch structure and character enrichment. Prerequisite: THEA 2372 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 3380 Theatre and Literature (3 semester credit hours) This course will cover various offerings in theater and performance literature, analysis, and criticism, including but not limited to world theatre and performance, contemporary European and American drama, contemporary women playwrights, gay and lesbian drama, Shakespeare and the Greeks, and performance studies. This course is reading, research, and writing intensive. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: THEA 1310 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
THEA 3V10 Technical Theatre Practicum (1-3 semester credit hours) This course is for students who would like to be involved on the technical end of a realized theatrical production. Time will be reserved for rehearsals, technical rehearsals, concept design and script analysis for all technical elements in a production. Additional rehearsals and crew calls, outside of the assigned class time, will be necessary to produce the show. This course provides practical use of technical theatrical studies by serving on a running crew in these capacities; sound operator, lighting operator, projections operator, audio engineer, backstage technician, assistant stage manager, or stage manager. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. Lab fee of $30 required. (0-[1-3]) R
THEA 4301 Acting for Film and Video (3 semester credit hours) The study and practice of principles of acting for film and video, including freeing the voice, movement and imagination, improvisation, script analysis, building a character, creating a role, monologues, scene study, and creating original work. Prerequisite: (THEA 1351 or equivalent) or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 4310 Theatre Internship (3 semester credit hours) Advanced students work with a professional theatre company or distinguished art institution in such capacities as are mutually agreed upon by the student, the company, and the student advisor. Students must develop, in conjunction with the instructor/advisor and responsible members of the professional theatre staff, a detailed proposal that includes a description of responsibilities, the extent of the commitment in terms of time, and the means by which a student is to be evaluated at the end of the internship. Prerequisites: (THEA 1351 and THEA 1352 and THEA 3356) or (THEA 2371 and THEA 3324 and THEA 3351) and instructor consent required. (3-0) R
THEA 4342 Advanced Topics in Technical Theatre (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches students how to develop varied practical skills necessary for the design and execution of a theatrical production design. Topics may include set, costume, sound design, media design, make-up, and stage management. Students additionally will develop the ability to analyze a script, song, or score and translate the ideas therein into design concepts. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (THEA 2371 and THEA 3324 and THEA 3351) or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
THEA 4372 Improvisation III (3 semester credit hours) Building on the rules and skills learned in Improv II, this course will examine and refine skills in timing, execution, scene work, delivery, vocal quality, movement and the creative development of characters. Students will learn to master Improv and Acting concepts through continuous research and performance. Prerequisite: THEA 3372 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
THEA 4V71 Independent Study in Theatre (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R