UNIV 1010 Comets to the Core Pre-Assessment (0 semester credit hours) This course is a graduation requirement for all first time in college freshmen. Freshmen are required to register for the course in order to complete the initial core curriculum assessment. Credit/No Credit only. Corequisite: ARHM 1100 or ATCM 1100 or BBSU 1100 or BCOM 1300 or BIS 1100 or ECS 1100 or EPPS 1110 or NATS 1101 or NATS 1142 or UNIV 1100. (0-0) S
UNIV 1100 Freshman Seminar - Undeclared (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed to introduce students to the university and career/major exploration. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-1) Y
UNIV 2010 Seminar for Pre-Law Professionals (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to help students discover and develop the skills necessary to succeed in the law school application process and law school. Students will explore various topics in a legal education and professional development context including issues of appropriate personal attributes and expectations, interpersonal communication, and self-appraisal. May not be repeated. Prerequisites: Sophomore standing and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2012 Seminar: Evaluating Competencies for Entry to Health Professions Schools (0 semester credit hours) This seminar is designed to help students explore professional competencies desired in healthcare fields, with particular emphasis on medicine, dentistry, podiatry and other professions requiring advanced degrees. Students will engage in learning centered around behavioral and ethical concepts, including integrity and social responsibility, as these relate to the delivery of healthcare and students pre-professional preparation in the context of the UT Dallas Health Professions Evaluation Process and application to health professions schools. May not be repeated. Prerequisite: Junior standing. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2020 Comets to the Core Assessment (0 semester credit hours) All students who have completed the core curriculum at UT Dallas must register for this course as the final assessment for the core curriculum. Credit/No Credit only. (0-0) S
UNIV 2074 Introductory University Engagement and Applied Leadership I (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as first-year mentors in the Freshman Mentor Program. We live in a time of unique social contexts and continuous change. This dynamic presents several potential challenges and necessary adjustments for young adults as they transition to the independence and period or personal development that occurs in college. This class provides the administrative structure and resources for the Freshman Mentor Program. Weekly topics along with monthly discussions will afford first-year mentors an opportunity to develop an understanding of the importance of university engagement and leadership from an applied perspective. First-year mentors are required to actively participate in online discussion groups and during in-person monthly meetings. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2075 Introductory University Engagement and Applied Leadership II (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as first-year mentors in the Freshman Mentor Program. We live in a time of unique social contexts and continuous change. This dynamic presents several potential challenges and necessary adjustments for young adults as they transition to the independence and period of personal development that occurs in college. This class provides the administrative structure and resources for the Freshman Mentor Program, and is a continuation of UNIV 2074 - Introductory University Engagement and Applied Leadership I. Weekly topics along with monthly discussions will afford first-year mentors an opportunity to develop an understanding of the importance of university engagement and leadership from an applied perspective. First-year mentors will continue and build upon required discussion group participation through deliverables related to specified learning outcomes. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2114 Portfolio Seminar for UT PACT Students (1 semester credit hour) The purpose of this seminar, required of all students enrolled in the UT PACT program, is for students to work on their professional development portfolios. Students will meet regularly with the program assessment director to discuss elements to be added to their portfolios and other issues related to their completion of the UT PACT requirements. Enrollment is limited to UT PACT students. Credit/No Credit only. UT PACT advisor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). (1-0) S
UNIV 2V96 Special Topics I (0-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) Y
UNIV 3010 Transfer Transitions (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to introduce incoming students transferring from another college or university to the academic and cultural environment of UT Dallas. The course encompasses topics such as: student life at UT Dallas, leadership opportunities, ways to get involved, academic and wellness resources on campus, and other pertinent information to help maximize your time at the university. The purpose of the course is to help you develop strategies and tactics that will lead to a successful experience at UT Dallas. Credit/No Credit Only. (1-0) S
UNIV 3015 Travel Preparation (0 semester credit hours) This class is for work done in preparation for or in follow up to a related course where travel occurs in another semester. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated (6 times maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-0) R
UNIV 3074 Intermediate University Engagement and Applied Leadership I (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as second-year mentors in the Freshman Mentor Program. We live in a time of unique social contexts and continuous change. This dynamic presents several potential challenges and necessary adjustments for young adults as they transition to the independence and period or personal development that occurs in college. This class provides the administrative structure and resources for the Freshman Mentor Program. Weekly topics along with monthly discussions will afford second-year mentors an opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of the importance of university engagement and leadership from an applied perspective. Second-year mentors are required to actively participate in online discussion groups and during in-person monthly meetings. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 3075 Intermediate University Engagement and Applied Leadership II (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as second-year mentors in the AES Freshman Mentor Program. We live in a time of unique social contexts and continuous change. This dynamic presents several potential challenges and necessary adjustments for young adults as they transition to the independence and period or personal development that occurs in college. This class provides the administrative structure and resources for the Freshman Mentor Program and is a continuation of UNIV 3074 - Introductory University Engagement and Applied Leadership I. Weekly topics along with monthly discussions will afford second-year mentors an opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of the importance of university engagement and leadership from an applied perspective. Second-year mentors will continue and build upon required discussion group participation through deliverables related to specified learning outcomes. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 3112 Research Practicum (1 semester credit hour) Students earn course credit for participation in a research program under faculty guidance. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (1-0) R
UNIV 3310 Community-Engaged Service Learning (3 semester credit hours) Community engaged learning can take several forms, including; service-learning, community-service, participatory research, and project-based scholarship. This interdisciplinary course aligns students with different community partners to affect social change. These collaborative relationships place a student's education in a broader context, immersing them in real-life issues that create shared relevancy. This form of experiential education enables students to grow through three distinct goals; academic learning, personal growth, and civic engagement. Each course section will have a different emphasis but will share a focus on the inter- and intra-personal development of 21st century skills, and reflective and reciprocal experiences. Community-engaged learning has been described as a transformative experience and identified as a high-impact practice in education. The course will integrate topic relevant reading and reflective writing assignments in a small-group setting. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
UNIV 4073 Advanced University Engagement and Applied Leadership I (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as third-year mentors in the Freshman Mentor Program. We live in a time of unique social contexts and continuous change. This dynamic presents several potential challenges and necessary adjustments for young adults as they transition to the independence and period or personal development that occurs in college. This class provides the administrative structure and resources for the Freshman Mentor Program. Weekly topics along with monthly discussions will afford third-year mentors an opportunity to develop a global understanding of the importance of university engagement and leadership from an applied perspective. Third-year mentors are required to actively participate in online discussion groups and during in-person monthly meetings. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 4074 Student Leadership (0 semester credit hours) This is the required course for all students selected to participate in University recognized leadership programs, including but not limited to First Year Leaders, and Student Tour Ambassadors for Recruitment. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 4075 Advanced University Engagement and Applied Leadership II (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as returning mentors in the Freshman Mentor Program. We live in a time of unique social contexts and continuous change. This dynamic presents several potential challenges and necessary adjustments for young adults as they transition to the independence and period of personal development that occurs in college. This class provides the administrative structure and resources for the Freshman Mentor Program and is a continuation of UNIV 4073 - Advanced University Engagement and Applied Leadership I. Weekly topics along with monthly discussions will afford returning mentors an opportunity to develop a global understanding of the importance of university engagement and leadership from an applied perspective. Returning mentors will continue and build upon required discussion group participation through deliverables related to specified learning outcomes. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 4076 Advanced Student Leadership (0 semester credit hours) This is a required course for all students selected to serve as First Year Leaders. Students will continue to learn content related to Freshman Seminar topics and will discuss their experiences as educators, mentors, and role models for their Freshman Seminar students. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (1-0) Y
UNIV 4174 Theory and Practice of Group Motivation and Leadership (1 semester credit hour) An elective course designed to provide students with a basic understanding of the theoretical knowledge and skills needed to lead and motivate groups engaged in personal or professional transitions. Includes supervised and paraprofessional experience. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: UNIV 4074. (1-0) Y
UNIV 4395 Topics: Online Education in a Massively Multiplayer Virtual World (3 semester credit hours) The internet is rapidly reshaping the landscape of education at all levels. This course seeks to inspire new innovation in the world of online education through gaming with focus on social media, computer programming, chemistry and economics. This course will consist of a combination of lecture periods, reading and hands on project development partially based around UT Dallas developed Minecraft mod, Polycraft World. Students must obtain a Minecraft license and a free Polycraft account. Open to all majors. Instructor consent required. (3-0) S