BA 1100 Business Basics (1 semester hour) This course is an introduction to the study of business, with exposure to each of the business disciplines. Students will be introduced to the functional areas of business, learn about social entrepreneurship, begin to plan their business careers, and present a simple business plan. Required for all freshman Naveen Jindal School of Management majors; open to all non-School of Management majors. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-0) S
BA 3100 Professional Development (1 semester hour) This course is required for all students majoring in Business Administration in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. This course is designed to enhance the student's experience in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. Students will work on networking skills, verbal and written communication skills, business etiquette training, and learn how to increase their human capital. Students will also work on projects geared towards career management and overall professional development as a business major. The goal of this class is to make the student a more marketable and valuable professional to the global economy. Students will learn and attend class using hybrid system of online training and on campus training. Only one professional development course (credit) may be applied toward your degree plan. Not repeated for credit. (1-0) S
BA 4010 ENACTUS Participation (0 semester hours) This course is designed for students participating in Enactus for zero course credit. Students in Enactus partner with business and education leaders to take lessons learned in the classroom out to local communities in need of assistance. Instructor consent required. May be repeated (3 attempts maximum). Instructor consent required. Graded Credit/No Credit. (1-0) S
BA 4101 Careers in Management (1 semester hour) The primary objective of this course is to provide students with assistance in making effective career decisions. This is accomplished through the use of career assessments, informational interviews, development of a career plan, as well as both practical and theoretical readings and exercises. Students will prepare resumes, develop effective interviewing skills, explore networking, and job search techniques. (1-0) Y
BA 4199 Senior Honors in Business Administration (1 semester hour) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Corequisite: BA 4299. (1-0) S
BA 4299 Thesis Research Methods and Writing Seminar (2 semester hours) This course will prepare Honors Students to write their Honors Thesis. Various research methods ranging from survey to archival will be discussed. Students will choose a method, pick a research question, and produce an outline and introduction to their thesis topic. Junior standing and instructor consent required. (2-0) S
BA 4v00 Special Topics (1-3 semester hours) May be lecture, readings, or individualized study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S
BA 4v10 ENACTUS Service (1-3 semester hours) This course is designed for students participating in Enactus. Students in Enactus partner with business and education leaders to take lessons learned in the classroom out to local communities in need of assistance. Working with the community, the students develop quality community outreach programs that focus on one or more of eight core areas: (1) market economics, (2) entrepreneurship, (3) financial literacy, (4) success skills, (5) environmental sustainability, (6) business ethics, (7) female empowerment, and (8) support of the military. These projects will be developed and applied with the intent of creating a better business or educational situation for the community. The target group for these projects will be aspiring entrepreneurs, struggling business owners, low-income families, and school children. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (3 hours maximum). Graded Credit/No Credit. ([1-3]-0) S
BA 4v90 Management Internship (1-3 semester hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. At the end of the semester students must prepare an oral presentation, reflecting on the knowledge gained in the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S