BIS 1100 Interdisciplinary Studies Freshman Seminar (1 semester hour) This course is designed to introduce students to the programs offered through the School of Interdisciplinary Studies and to assist students adjust to university life. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-0) Y
BIS 2v90 Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) R
BIS 3150 Jumpstart Seminar I (1 semester hour) This one hour seminar is an adjunct to a service learning program, Jumpstart, which involves 6-12 hours/week supervised work in a preschool classroom. This course is restricted to students who participate in the Jumpstart program. The seminar provides training for activities that students will lead in their preschool classrooms, and background on issues related to young children's cognitive, language and social development. Jumpstart Corps members have the unique opportunity to inspire young children to learn, serve in a local community, work on a team, and build professional skills. All Corps members receive professional-caliber training to help them implement Jumpstart's outcome-based program, promote children's school success, and build family involvement. Instructor consent required. (1-0) S
BIS 3190 Library Research Skills (1 semester hour) Through this online course, students will develop the skills to identify what information is needed for their research, how to find and evaluate scholarly resources, and how to organize the information for a paper or other course project. Plagiarism, copyright, and citation management will be included. (1-0) R
BIS 3250 Jumpstart Seminar II (2 semester hours) This internship seminar is an adjunct to a service learning program, Jumpstart, which involves 6-12 hours/week of supervised work in a preschool classroom. This course is restricted to students who participate in the Jumpstart program. The seminar will help students understand the role that the Jumpstart program has on citizenship. Topics covered in this seminar will deal with the following: The Working Poor, Defining Jumpstart Service, Leadership and Civic engagement, and Jumpstart as a Social Change Agent. Students are required to attend training and service events throughout the semester. Instructor consent required. (2-0) S
BIS 3310 Environmental Studies Project (3 semester hours) This course is designed to provide students with a new learning experience in environmental issues. This may be at a faculty-supervised work situation in business, government, or other approved setting. Sites may be local, out of state, or abroad. The internship option provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals in environmental studies. Experience gained may also serve as a work credential after graduation. Course requirements include writing a journal and research paper connecting theory to practice. Students may also choose a straight research option to meet the requirements of this course but instructor consent must be obtained before any work is undertaken. (3-0) Y
BIS 3320 The Nature of Intellectual Inquiry (3 semester hours) Core course designed to enhance the student's critical thinking and reasoning in order to understand and utilize the methodologies of scholarly pursuits. To be taken during the student's first twelve hours as a junior in the Interdisciplinary Studies program. (There is a honors section of this course for those interested in honors in the major). May not be taken on a credit/no credit basis. (3-0) S
BIS 3v03 Educational Issues (1-6 semester hours) This course is designed to allow students to study and analyze various educational issues under the direct supervision of a faculty member. Students must have the prior approval from the faculty member willing to supervise the course and the permission of the Associate Dean of the School of Interdisciplinary Studies. Topics may vary. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) R
BIS 4303 Senior Honors in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 semester hours) Required for graduation magna cum laude and summa cum laude. See requirements for Graduation with Latin Honors in this catalog. Consent of the instructor and Associate Dean of Interdisciplinary Studies is required. (3-0) S
BIS 4305 Learning Studies Practicum (3 semester hours) Supervised instructional experiences with school-age students. Focus is on enrichment activities that meet the learning needs of individual students. Consent of faculty member is required. (3-0) Y
BIS 4306 Strategies for Diversity in Education (3 semester hours) This course prepares teacher certification candidates to meet the challenges of student diversity in the general education classroom. Students will examine the roles of various professionals, overview the identification and needs of special education and gifted and talented students through the lenses of gender, ethnicity, culture and language. Students will learn about IEPs, ARDs, legal requirements, collaboration, instructional differentiation, cooperative learning, inclusion, and assessment techniques applicable for diverse learners in the general education classroom. (3-0) S
BIS 4310 Co-op Education (3 semester hours) Students completing this course will integrate academic learning with their co-op work experience. To attain this goal, students will keep a journal of their workplace experience, maintain contact with the instructor, and prepare a written report that focuses on the accomplishments and insights gained through their co-op experience. Topics may vary. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) T
BIS 4v01 Special Topics (1-3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) R
BIS 4v02 Independent Study (1-9 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. An independent study course may be used in the Interdisciplinary Studies degree plan wherever appropriate. An independent study course involves an individual contract between the student and a faculty member, specifying what requirements the student will meet. This usually involves some combination of reading, research, papers, examinations, and meetings with the faculty member. To undertake an independent study, the student must arrange with an appropriate faculty member for supervision of a particular topic. For written papers, 10 pages are required for each hour of credit. Consent of the faculty member is required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). ([1-9]-0) S
BIS 4v04 Internship (1-6 semester hours) Students undertake a new learning experience at a faculty-supervised work situation in business, government, or social service agency, arts institution, or other setting appropriate to the student's concentration. Sites may be local, out of state, or abroad. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals in a specific field. Experience gained may also serve as a work credential after graduation. Course requirements include writing a journal and research paper connecting theory to practice. This course is open to all majors at UTD. The internships must be approved by the instructor before commencing the internship. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) S