COMM 1311 (SPCH 1311) Survey of Oral and Mediated/Technology-based Communication (3 semester hours) Survey of theories, concepts, and skills as they relate to human interaction. Study of intrapersonal, interpersonal, small group, public, and mediated and technology-based communication. Practice in the preparation and delivery of oral presentations. (3-0) S
COMM 2311 Topics in Communication (3 semester hours) An introduction to specialized topics in communication. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). (3-0) R
COMM 2313 (SPCH 1315) Public Speaking (3 semester hours) Designed to introduce students to the principles of public speaking. Emphasizes preparation (including audience analysis, research, outlining, and practice) and performance. Students will prepare and present various types of speeches, including those that relate to informative, persuasive,and special occasion speaking. (3-0) T
COMM 2v71 Independent Study in Communications (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
COMM 3300 Reading Media Critically (3 semester hours) Addresses the process of reading and interpretation in the larger context of communication theory. Focuses on the interpretation of communication created for and disseminated through mass media. Course fulfills the Advanced Writing Requirement for the EMAC major. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) Y
COMM 3301 Public and Professional Speaking for Business (3 semester hours) Explores public communication strategies in professional contexts. Students learn business-related interpersonal and interviewing skills, how to conduct meetings and work in teams, and practice business-related presentations. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) T
COMM 3311 Interpersonal Communication (3 semester hours) Surveys theories, concepts, and skills related to communication in personal and professional relationships. Examines the influence of social media and technology-based communication on interpersonal communication and introduces students to research about interpersonal communication and relationships. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) Y
COMM 3338 Debate (3 semester hours) By instructor approval only, this course is open to members of the UTD competitive debate team. Working as a squad, students will participate in practice debates as well as weekend competitions against other colleges and universities across the country. May be repeated for credit (12 hours maximum). Graded Credit/No Credit only. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
COMM 3342 Advanced Topics in Communication (3 semester hours) Focuses on major issues in communication, such as intercultural communication, communication within organizations, and social and cultural implications of mediated and technology-based communication. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) R
COMM 3351 Communication Theory (3 semester hours) This course surveys the study of human communication theory. Students will be introduced to major concepts and theories associated with interpersonal, intercultural, group/organizational, rhetorical and mass communication. Students will learn to apply these communication concepts and theories to their everyday lives and future professional pursuits. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 (3-0) R
COMM 3352 Media and Culture (3 semester hours) Media and Culture will examine mass media historically and culturally. The origins and evolution of sounds and images, words and pictures, and the business and democratic expression of mass media will be explored to understand how mass media shapes our culture. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 (3-0) R
COMM 4313 Advanced Public Speaking (3 semester hours) This course is for students who have mastered basic public speaking skills. It will explore and fine-tune a wider range of styles and skills. The course will be performance-centered and will include presentations, selected readings, examinations, and classroom exercises on a more advanced level. Prerequisite: COMM 2313 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
COMM 4314 Persuasion (3 semester hours) The course will emphasize the critical evaluation of persuasive messages and the design of persuasive appeals. By merging theory and practice, students will focus on an understanding of persuasive techniques as a mean for influencing attitudes, beliefs, opinions, and actions in a variety of contexts, including business, politics, and interpersonal interactions, and via media and technology-based communication. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 and upper-division standing. (3-0) R
COMM 4340 Small Group Communication (3 semester hours) Group processes and dynamics applied to public discussion and small group communication. Study of the development of group leadership abilities, problem-solving techniques and conflict management, discussion methods, and the importance of small groups in the modern professional environment. Prerequisites: RHET 1302 and upper-division standing. (3-0) R
COMM 4350 Intercultural Communication (3 semester hours) Examines how culture is studied and how culture affects self-concept, reasoning and patterns of thought, verbal and nonverbal communication, and communication style. Additional topics include intercultural conflict, ethnocentrism and prejudice, intercultural accommodation and adjustment, and intercultural business protocol. Prerequisites: RHET 1302 and upper-division standing. (3-0) R
COMM 4351 U.S. Culture & Communication (3 semester hours) This interdisciplinary course examines the relationship between American culture and communication in terms of concepts and theories related to anthropology, communication, linguistics, psychology, and sociology. Topics covered include the characterization of culture; descriptions of American culture; the relationship between American culture and communication; and research about co-cultures, subcultures, and regional dialects. Prerequisites: RHET 1302 and upper-division standing. (3-0) R
COMM 4v71 Independent Study in Communication (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R