CRWT 2301 Introductory Creative Writing (3 semester hours) An introduction to creative writing, the course will investigate and instruct students in the elementary approach to the process of creating original prose, poetry, and/or dramatic format works. The class will focus on a minimum of two genres and will cover both experimental and traditional forms. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) S
CRWT 2v71 Independent Study in Creative Writing (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor Consent Required. ([1-3]-0) R
CRWT 3307 Creating Short Stories (3 semester hours) A creative workshop on the art of the short story which both investigates the creative techniques and processes involved in writing short stories and also concentrates on a variety of experimental and traditional forms that combine the art of words with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
CRWT 3308 Creating Nonfictions (3 semester hours) A creative workshop built on the aesthetic techniques and aesthetic processes used to create personal essays, biographies, and autobiographies as works of art. Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
CRWT 3351 Creating Poetry (3 semester hours) A creative workshop on the art of poetry which investigates the creative techniques and processes involved in writing poems in various, often opposing, forms that combine the art of words with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
CRWT 3360 Art Criticism (3 semester hours) This seminar provides a context for practice in the writing of art criticism. Subjects selected for examination may include visual arts, film, dance, theater, music, fiction, and poetry. Prerequisites: ARTS 1301 and CRWT 2301 or equivalent. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) R
CRWT 4307 Creating Short Stories: Advanced (3 semester hours) An advanced workshop on the creation and theory of the short story that will focus both on structure and on creative techniques and creative process involved in writing sophisticated, challenging, and linguistically developed short stories. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 3307 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
CRWT 4353 Creating Poetry: Advanced (3 semester hours) An advanced workshop on the creation, history, and theory of poetry that will focus on the creative techniques and the creative process involved in writing formalist, lyrical, free verse, and experimental poetry. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 3351 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
CRWT 4354 Creating Play, Movie, and Television Scripts (3 semester hours) An advanced workshop on the aesthetics, art, and creation of play, movie, and television scripts which will focus on the creative techniques and the creative process involved not only in the creation of film, play, and television scripts, but also in the production of plays, films, and television episodes. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
CRWT 4v71 Independent Study in Creative Writing (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R