ED 3314 The American Public School (3 semester hours) A study of the nature, scope, and purposes of the public school, with emphasis on meeting the needs of the multicultural society of Texas. Successful completion of 20 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Completion of 45 hours of course work and a cumulative GPA of 2.500 is a prerequisite for this course. (3-0) S
ED 3315 Children's Literature (3 semester hours) Examining literature that is age appropriate for elementary students. Literature from many cultures and writers will be included. Students will explore ways to incorporate a variety of literature in their classes and the national and state standards will be incorporated into the class. Prerequisite: HUMA 1301 or equivalent. (Same as LIT 3315) (3-0) S
ED 3339 Educational Psychology for Teachers (3 semester hours) This course will introduce the theoretical foundation underlying various teaching strategies and provide a framework for understanding student development. Emphasis will be on application of theories in actual teacher behavior. (3-0) S
ED 3340 Math Concepts for Teachers (3 semester hours) Class designed to teach prospective classroom teachers to analyze problem situations, create solution strategies, solve problems, and justify his/her thinking; students will construct concepts of number, patterns, geometry, measurement, probability, and statistics through the use of exploration and investigation. Prerequisite: MATH 1306 or MATH 1314. (3-0) S
ED 3342 Classroom Management Grades EC - 6 (3 semester hours) Principles of teaching, classroom management and organization, and designing instruction and assessment for elementary/middle schools. Emphasis will be given to understanding the teaching environment, understanding learners, and enhancing student achievement. The domains and competencies for the Professional Development TExES are examined. Successful completion of 20 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 3345 Art, Music, and Physical Development Grades EC - 6 (3 semester hours) Principles and foundations for developing critical thinking and motor skills through art, music, and organized movement. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 3370 Curriculum and Instruction in Mathematics and Computer Science (3 semester hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in the mathematical sciences. Successful completion of 20 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 3371 Curriculum and Instruction in the Natural Sciences (3 semester hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in the natural sciences. Successful completion of 20 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 3380 Curriculum and Instruction in English (3 semester hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in English. Successful completion of 20 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 3382 Curriculum and Instruction in Social Studies (3 semester hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in history. Successful completion of 20 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4343 Science Methods for Grades EC - 6 (3 semester hours) Subject matter and scope and sequence organization for an integrated science program in the elementary/middle school based on national and Texas curricula and assessment standards. Hands-on activities are included. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4344 Mathematics Methods for Elementary Teachers (3 semester hours) Subject matter and scope and sequence organization for teaching mathematics in the elementary/middle school, based on national and Texas curricula and assessment standards. Manipulatives and visuals are used to help students master basic mathematics principles and develop critical thinking skills. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4345 Social Studies Methods for Grades EC - 6 (3 semester hours) Subject matter and scope and sequence organization for teaching social studies in the elementary/middle school, based on national and Texas curricula and assessment standards. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4352 Reading I: Learning to Read (3 semester hours) A study of the reading process and theories about teaching reading, understanding the sequential development of reading programs and methods for grouping students and subject matter. This course is required for all students seeking Generalist EC-6 or ELAR 4-8 certification. (3-0) S
ED 4353 Reading in Secondary Content (3 semester hours) Focuses on using reading and writing in non-language related courses. Required for students seeking certification for Grades 4-8 Generalist and all Grades 8-12 content teaching fields. (3-0) S
ED 4357 Diagnostic Reading (3 semester hours) Examines a variety of assessment and evaluation strategies that are appropriate for the classroom teacher - both formal and informal procedures are introduced. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Prerequisites: ED 4352 and ED 4363 and must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. (3-0) S
ED 4358 Chess I: Using Chess in Elementary Schools (3 semester hours) Using chess to teach critical thinking, math, and reading skills in the elementary and secondary classrooms. This course is also appropriate for chess instructors who wish to incorporate additional academic and humanistic goals into their programs. No previous knowledge of chess is required. This course is offered through the UTD's eLearning. (3-0) R
ED 4359 Chess II: Institutional and Cultural Contexts of Chess (3 semester hours) Examination of the role of chess in history and in contemporary culture and analysis of chess in education. Each student's culminating paper proposes improving an existing chess program or developing a new chess program. No prior knowledge of chess is required. This course is offered through the UTD's eLearning. (3-0) R
ED 4361 Classroom Management Grades 8 - 12 (3 semester hours) A systematic approach to managing the total classroom environment. Emphasis will be given to practical applications of the research in instructional design, instructional management, and strategies in behavioral management. The domains and competencies for the Pedagogy and Professional Development TExES are examined. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4362 Classroom Management Grades 4 - 8 (3 semester hours) A systematic approach to managing the total classroom environment in the middle school. Emphasis will be given to practical applications of the research in instructional design, instructional management, and strategies in behavioral management for pre- and early teens. The domains and competencies for the Pedagogy and Professional Development TExES are examined. Class includes 20 hours of field experience for 4-8 Generalist students. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4363 Reading II/ELAR Methods (3 semester hours) Focuses on developing and learning methods to teach reading, writing, listening, language arts, speaking and thinking for Grades EC-6. Instructional strategies, thematic teaching, study skills, and effective uses for text, media, and other resources will be utilized. This course is required for all students seeking Generalist EC-6 certification. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Prerequisite: ED 4352. (3-0) S
ED 4370 Multicultural Perspectives in Learning (3 semester hours) Focuses on identifying and effectively meeting the needs of a diverse population. Emphasis is placed on tools for planning, collaborative decision making, and implementation of new ideas in the development of programs for minority and non-minority students in academic achievement. (3-0) R
ED 4372 Educational Technology (3 semester hours) Emphasis is placed on the use of technology to support the teaching and learning process. This class is only available online. Information about specific instructional applications is presented to provide concrete examples of principles and procedures. Focuses on electronic instructional media, multimedia, telecommunications, multi-user networks, and their real world applications to the secondary classroom. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Department permission required. Must register in Teacher Development Center. (3-0) S
ED 4693 Student Teaching - Elementary (6 semester hours) Observation and supervised teaching in the elementary school. Requires full-time attendance in schools for 12 weeks. Prerequisite: Admission to student teaching. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Additional fee attached to course. (6-0) S
ED 4694 Student Teaching - Grades 8 - 12 (6 semester hours) Observation and supervised teaching in a single teaching field. Requires full time attendance in schools for 12 weeks. Prerequisite: Admission to student teaching. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Additional fee attached to course. (6-0) S
ED 4696 Student Teaching - Grades 4 - 8 (6 semester hours) Observation and supervised teaching in a classroom for Grades 4-8. Requires full-time attendance in school for 12 weeks. Prerequisite: Admission to student teaching. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Additional fee attached to course. (6-0) S
ED 4v90 Independent Study in Education (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
ED 4v95 Special Topics in Education (1-6 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Department permission required. ([1-6]-0) R