ISIS 3305 Humans: Our Place in Nature (3 semester hours) The history of the human lineage is a complicated but fascinating combination of biological and cultural changes. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3306 Human Female: Biology and Culture (3 semester hours) This course takes a life cycle approach to the major biological events in a woman's life, and the various cultural observances or lack thereof, which accompany these changes. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3308 Bones, Bodies, and Disease (3 semester hours) An introduction to the wealth of knowledge that can be ascertained through an analysis of skeletal and mummified remains. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3309 Dental Anthropology (3 semester hours) An introduction to the wealth of knowledge that can be ascertained through analysis of the dentition of archaeological and modern populations. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3310 Childhood Sexual Abuse: A Multidisciplinary Investigation (3 semester hours) Examines childhood sexual abuse in America using multiple cultural forms: psychiatry, fiction, drama, film, news stories, and television. Considers how the definitions of sexual abuse evolve and change from the late 1800s to the 21st century. (3-0) R
ISIS 3312 Women in Management (3 semester hours) Earnings differences, employment policies, and other critical issues affecting the status of women in managerial and professional positions. (3-0) S
ISIS 3315 The Politics of Reproduction: U.S. and Global Contexts (3 semester hours) This course assesses the ways in which reproduction and access to reproductive healthcare services are influenced by myriad factors including gender, age, marital status, race/ethnicity, geography and ability, among others. Grounding our discussion in broader discourses of equality, human rights, citizenship, and non-discrimination, we will explore human reproduction as an inherently charged political domain, one that has been and continues to be shaped at the intersection of political, medical/scientific, ethical and religious ideologies. Compares the political dimensions of reproduction in both the industrialized and developing nations. (3-0) R
ISIS 3335 United States and East Asia (3 semester hours) This course examines the interaction between the United States and East Asia. Topics include sociocultural differences, conflicts in political ideals, economic relations, and trans-Pacific diplomacy. The course highlights the spread of American culture and the rise of East Asia's economic power. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3338 Native American Cultures (3 semester hours) This course provides an overview of Native American cultures (Indian, Eskimo/Inuit, and Aleut) from the first contacts with the European world to the present. Native American cultures will be viewed from an interdisciplinary and culture area perspective. Topics discussed include Native American ideologies and issues. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3350 World Archaeology (3 semester hours) A look at archaeology from a global perspective. This course will include theory, methods, and analytical techniques used to reconstruct past cultures. (3-0) Y
ISIS 3390 Costa Rica Field Trip (3 semester hours) Costa Rica is world famous for its dedication to the concept of sustainability. This field trip class will visit different locations in Costa Rica to better understand the diversity of its environment, its non-human primates, its practices that help sustainability and related ecological and social issues. The emphasis on particular aspects of the course may vary from year to year but the major emphasis is sustainability. This course has a service learning component. Student must be in good academic standing. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
ISIS 3v70 Teaching Internship (1-3 semester hours) Students work individually with faculty members in preparing and presenting course materials and tutoring students. Instructor and Associate Dean's consent required. Taken on a credit/no credit basis. Can be repeated (6 maximum hours). Must have completed the relevant course with a grade of at least B and have a UT Dallas GPA of at least 3.000. ([1-3]-0) S
ISIS 4303 Business, Law and Culture (3 semester hours) Study of the interactions among business, law and culture from an interdisciplinary perspective. The course examines business tangles, legal complexities, ethical dilemmas, and cultural contradictions in the capitalist system. (3-0) T
ISIS 4309 Diversity and Globalization (3 semester hours) This course studies the meanings, processes, and impacts of globalization. It highlights sensitivity to global diversity and examines how global companies cope with a wide array of political/legal forces and transform social/cultural differences into competitive advantages. Topics include conflict resolution in business diplomacy and strategies of managing global diversity. (3-0) Y
ISIS 4350 International Development: Cultural Impacts (3 semester hours) This interdisciplinary course explores the social, political and economic factors that shape international development. Central course themes include the history of international development, poverty and economics, education, sustainability and the environment. (3-0) R
ISIS 4v89 Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (1-6 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) R