PA 2325 Introduction to Public Service (3 semester hours) This course is designed to give students a broad introduction to public service. Students will explore the history of public service in American life, examine the contemporary erosion of interest in public service, explore different options for public service, and draw lessons from their own experience about how to increase the likelihood that more Americans will engage in public service during their lives. The course will also explore the range of alternatives for public impact, whether through traditional political participation (voting), personal volunteering and advocacy, service on nonprofit boards, socially-responsible engagement in corporate careers, social entrepreneurship, or careers in government and nonprofits. (3-0) Y
PA 3304 Research Methods in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Examines methods of Public Administration research. Topics include the nature of administrative inquiry, framing a research problem, choosing a research design, developing hypotheses, sampling designs, and measuring variables. Topics will be covered as students conduct their own study. (Same as CRIM 3304 and SOC 3304) (3-0) Y
PA 3310 Public Administration (3 semester hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government agencies within the framework of political values and organization dynamics. (Same as PSCI 3310) (3-0) S
PA 3314 Financial Management (3 semester hours) Financial accounting, control, and management for efficient and effective resource use within public and nonprofit organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 3333 Human Resources Management (3 semester hours) Leadership, motivation, decision making, conflict resolution, performance, and other important challenges of personnel management in government organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. (Same as GEOG 3377) (3-0) Y
PA 3378 Public Finance and Economics (3 semester hours) This course focuses on the application of economic theories to understand the role of government. Students will learn how to use the tools of microeconomics to interpret the impacts of government policies. Topics include the role of tax, public expenditure policies, public goods, externalities, social security, and regulation. (3-0) Y
PA 3379 Diversity in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This course will focus on diversity beyond just race/ethnicity and gender, and examine dimensions of sexual orientation, religion, skill level, physical ability, communication styles, and multi-generations in the workplace. Understanding diversity and learning how to manage its complexity is the key focus of this class. Students will examine the importance of multiple cultures in public organizations in work teams and discuss the challenges that come with multiculturalism. Social interactions that contribute to the understanding of difference groups in diverse settings are examined. (3-0) Y
PA 3380 Organizations and Management in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This course covers the major topics, issues, and contributions in the literature on organizations and management, with emphasis on applications to government and nonprofit organizations. Class readings draw from leading scholars in a variety of disciplinary traditions in order to shed light on the historical development of the literature. Additionally, the course material will review some of the contemporary approaches to the study of organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 4340 Creating High Performance Organizations (3 semester hours) Explores the managerial behaviors required to build high levels of performance necessary in contemporary work organizations. Explores performance management, employee engagement and high quality services, and new discoveries in the neurosciences and psychology that enhance human well- being while creating more productive work environments. (3-0) Y
PA 4345 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution (3 semester hours) This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiations in the public sector. Students analyze the parties, issues and strategies in negotiations and will take part in many negotiation simulations to develop their skills in issues identification and problem resolution. The course will begin with the study of two-party negotiations and progress to multi-party, multi-issue negotiations. (Same as PSCI 4345) (3-0) T
PA 4350 Politics of Bureaucracy (3 semester hours) This course will provide an in-depth knowledge of some of the major issues in bureaucracy. It focuses on understanding the internal processes and politics as well as some of the external factors that play an important role in the dynamic world of public administration. This course will include varied topics such as administrators as policymakers, the role of ethics and accountability, and external intervention in the daily activities of the policymakers in order to explore the challenges faced by public administrators in the organization and management of public agencies. (3-0) R
PA 4351 Urban Management (3 semester hours) Examination of ways in which the fiscal and administrative policies of local government shape the structure of opportunities and incentives in urban areas. (3-0) R
PA 4355 Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course addresses the basic concepts of the trillion dollar nonprofit sector (also known as the Third Sector) that includes education, research, health care, art, religion, social services, advocacy, legal services, international assistance, foundations and mutual benefit organizations. This comprehensive course provides a thorough introduction and understanding to the sector with a focus on the history of nonprofit organizations in America, qualifications for charitable groups, and international comparisons. (3-0) Y
PA 4360 Ethics in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Examines the relationship between ethical choices and the decision making of public managers. The ethics of organizational policies and public policies are also examined. (3-0) Y
PA 4370 Leadership (3 semester hours) Explores a full range of leadership theories and modern views of requisites for success in positions of leadership. Students will take from this course knowledge of leadership theories and practical knowledge for applying leadership principles in any organizational setting. (3-0) Y
PA 4386 Social Policy in Modern Societies (3 semester hours) Examines the controversies and research concerning the development of welfare states and public social provision. Particular emphasis is placed on the U.S. public social spending system, in historical and comparative perspective. Explanations of developments in social policies and an assessment of their applicability to the American welfare state and those of other societies are considered. (Same as SOC 4386) (3-0) R
PA 4396 Topics in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Subject matters of current interest. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) R
PA 4v97 Independent Study in Public Administration (1-9 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
PA 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) S
PA 4v99 Senior Honors in Public Administration (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) R