SOCS 2v95 Individual Instruction in the Social Sciences (1-6 semester hours) Individual study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
SOCS 3111 Careers in the Social Sciences (1 semester hour) This one-credit course is designed to provide social sciences majors and those interested in the social sciences with information and skills that will help them select and pursue a career in their major or a related field. (1-0) Y
SOCS 3361 Social Issues and Ethics in Computer Science and Engineering (3 semester hours) This course exposes students to major theoretical approaches and modes of reasoning about ethics while exploring a range of important professional and ethical issues in computing and engineering, and the interrelationship between the computing and engineering professions and important elements of social systems. Issues of professional ethics, computer crime and privacy, intellectual property, the balance between the acceptability of risk and constraints such as cost, scheduling, safety and quality, the role of globalization and various important constitutional issues are all explored by drawing upon engineering and computing case studies. (Same as ECS 3361) (3-0) Y
SOCS 3v96 Selected Topics in the Social Sciences (1-3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) R
SOCS 4320 Social Entrepreneurship (3 semester hours) This course is about providing those interested in entrepreneurial ventures with primarily a social focus with the skills and knowledge necessary to accomplish their goals. The course will be seminar style and require a practicum. Topics include entrepreneurship in the nonprofit sector, entrepreneurship in political campaigns, new public management and the role of entrepreneurship in government and public services, urban planning, and geographical information sciences as a tool all entrepreneurs can use in the creation of new opportunities. (3-0) R
SOCS 4v98 Pre-Law Internship (3-6 semester hours) An internship with law firms or judges that will expose students to legal issues and to the practice of law. An excellent exposure to the legal profession. May repeat for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([3-6]-0) S