SPAN 1311 (SPAN 1311) Beginning Spanish I (3 semester hours) This course will integrate acquisition of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with the study of Spanish culture and civilization. (3-0) Y
SPAN 1312 (SPAN 1312) Beginning Spanish II (3 semester hours) This course is a continuation of Beginning Spanish I. It will integrate acquisition of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with study of Spanish culture and civilization. Prerequisite: SPAN 1311 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 2311 (SPAN 2311) Intermediate Spanish I (3 semester hours) This course is a continuation of Beginning Spanish. It will include review and application of skills in listening comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. The course emphasizes conversation, vocabulary acquisition, reading, composition, and culture. Prerequisite: SPAN 1312 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 2312 (SPAN 2312) Intermediate Spanish II (3 semester hours) This course is a continuation of Intermediate Spanish I. It will include review and application of skills in listening comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. The course focuses on conversation, vocabulary acquisition, reading, and composition. A major course component will be an emphasis on Spanish culture. Prerequisite: SPAN 2311 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 3341 Medical Spanish (3 semester hours) This course is designed to introduce students to the utilization of the Spanish language in the health care arena. A combination of written and oral exercises will be employed in a workshop atmosphere. Prerequisite: SPAN 1312 or equivalent. (3-0) Y
SPAN 3363 Spanish Composition and Style (3 semester hours) Designed to offer students the opportunity to perfect linguistic skills and to comprehend selected works of Peninsular and Spanish-American writers. Prerequisite: SPAN 2312 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
SPAN 3365 Advanced Spanish (3 semester hours) The course is designed to help students to build continuous vocabulary, increase the understanding of the Hispanic culture, and augment speaking fluency. The course will cover reading comprehension, discussion of literature, composition, and conversation. Prerequisite: SPAN 2312 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 4364 Advanced Spanish Culture (3 semester hours) This course will provide students with a basic knowledge of and appreciation for the Spanish language, culture and civilization as found in Spain, Latin America, and the Hispanic communities in the U.S.A. The traditional elements and new trends of the culture as revealed in the arts, music, film and literature will be covered. Classes will be conducted in Spanish with occasional use of English for clarification of difficult concepts only. Prerequisite: SPAN 3365 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) R