UNIV 1010 Freshman Seminar (0 semester hours) This course is a graduation requirement for all first time in college freshman. This course is designed to introduce incoming freshmen to the intellectual and cultural environment of the university and the impacts it will have on their lives as students. The course incorporates presentations by leading UT Dallas faculty members on research developments of major current interest, small section meetings to discuss these presentations and matters of general concern to UT Dallas freshmen, and a substantial component of on-line learning focused on developing the strategies and tactics that will lead to successful careers at UT Dallas and beyond. This class or ECS 1200 is required of all first time in college freshman students. Credit/No Credit only. Corequisite: ARHM 1100 or BA 1100 or BIS 1100 or CGS 1100 or CLDP 1100 or EPPS 1110 or NATS 1101 or NSC 1100 or PSY 1100 or SPAU 1100 or UNIV 1100. (2-0) Y
UNIV 1100 Freshman Seminar - Undeclared (1 semester hour) This course is designed to introduce students to the university and career/major exploration. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-0) Y
UNIV 2010 Seminar for Pre-Law Professionals (0 semester hours) This course is designed to help students discover and develop the skills necessary to succeed in the law school application process and law school. Students will explore various topics in a legal education and professional development context including issues of appropriate personal attributes and expectations, interpersonal communication, and self-appraisal. May not be repeated. Prerequisites: Sophomore standing and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2012 Seminar: Evaluating Competencies for Entry to Health Professions Schools (0 semester hours) This seminar is designed to help students explore professional competencies desired in healthcare fields, with particular emphasis on medicine, dentistry, podiatry and other professions requiring advanced degrees. Students will engage in learning centered around behavioral and ethical concepts, including integrity and social responsibility, as these relate to the delivery of healthcare and students pre-professional preparation in the context of the UT Dallas Health Professions Evaluation Process and application to health professions schools. May not be repeated. Prerequisite: Junior standing. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2v96 Special Topics I (1-3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) Y
UNIV 2v99 Collegium V Honors Readings I (1-3 semester hours) An interdisciplinary exploration of contemporary topics in the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and engineering. CV Honors approval needed. May be repeated (3 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S
UNIV 3v99 Collegium V Honors Readings II (1-3 semester hours) An interdisciplinary exploration of contemporary topics in the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and engineering. CV Honors approval needed. May be repeated for credit (3 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S
UNIV 4074 Student Leadership (0 semester hours) This is the required course for all students selected to participate in University recognized leadership programs, including but not limited to First Year Leaders, and Student Tour Ambassadors for Recruitment. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. (May be repeated up to three times.) (2-0) Y
UNIV 4174 Theory and Practice of Group Motivation and Leadership (1 semester hour) An elective course designed to provide students with a basic understanding of the theoretical knowledge and skills needed to lead and motivate groups engaged in personal or professional transitions. Includes supervised and paraprofessional experience. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required and UNIV 4074. May be repeated for credit (3 hours maximum). (1-0) Y
UNIV 4274 Advanced Group Leadership (2 semester hours) An elective course designed to provide students with an advanced understanding of the theoretical knowledge and skills needed to lead and motivate groups engaged in personal or professional transitions. Includes supervised and paraprofessional experience. Prerequisites: Instructor consent required and UNIV 4074 and UNIV 4174. May be repeated for credit (4 hours maximum). (2-0) Y
UNIV 4v96 Special Topics II (1-3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S
UNIV 4v97 Independent Study (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S
UNIV 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) Students undertake a new learning experience at a faculty-supervised work situation in business, government, or social service agency, arts institution, or other setting appropriate to the student's concentration. Sites may be local, out of state, or abroad. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals in a specific field. Experience gained may also serve as a work credential after graduation. Course requirements include writing a journal and research paper connecting theory to practice. This course is open to all majors at UT Dallas. Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) S
UNIV 4v99 Collegium V Honors Readings III (1-3 semester hours) An interdisciplinary exploration of contemporary topics in the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and engineering. CV Honors approval needed. May be repeated for credit (3 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) S