AHST 6301 Foundations I: Practices of Art History (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to research methods in art history. (3-0) Y
AHST 6302 Foundations II: History of Materials and Techniques (3 semester credit hours) Exploration of different ways of studying artworks in their historical, critical, and institutional contexts. (3-0) Y
AHST 6310 Topics in Art History (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to artistic production of a particular time, place, or movement, or a theme treated across chronology and geography. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6311 Topics in Architecture and Landscape Architecture (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of architecture and the built and natural environment. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6312 Topics in Sculpture (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of sculpture. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6313 Topics in Painting (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of painting. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6314 Topics in Works on Paper (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of drawings, prints, and other works on paper. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6315 Topics in the History of Design (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of design. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6316 Topics in Decorative Arts (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of the decorative arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6317 Topics in the History of New Media (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the forms, theories, and histories of new media. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6320 Topics in the History of Collecting (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the history of collecting. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6321 Topics in Global Art Histories (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the global histories of art. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6322 Topics in Data-Driven Art History (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to the integration of qualitative inquiry and observation with methods of computation, natural science, and information design. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6323 Topics in the Histories of Art and Science (3 semester credit hours) Master's seminar on a topic related to intersections of the histories of art and science. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AHST 6350 Practicum I (3 semester credit hours) Planning and research for advanced research project in art history (practicum). Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) T
AHST 6351 Practicum II (3 semester credit hours) Research, presentation, and completion of the Practicum project. Pass/Not Pass only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: AHST 6350 and department consent required. (3-0) T