HUMA 5V01 Supervised Internship in the Humanities (1-9 semester credit hours) Exploration of professional settings in the humanities. Students undertake a new learning experience at a supervised work situation related to their academic interests. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals. Course requirements include formal and reflective writing. Pass/NP only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
HUMA 5V02 Internship in the Humanities (1-9 semester credit hours) Developing professional tools in the humanities. Students undertake a new learning experience at a supervised work situation closely related to their academic interests. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to further test skills and clarify goals. Course requirements include formal and reflective writing. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
HUMA 6300 Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to interdisciplinary approaches to the arts and humanities, including concepts of inquiry and interpretation that form the theoretical bases of the graduate programs, seminars, workshops, and studios. Required of all degree candidates for the Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy in Humanities. (3-0) S
HUMA 6320 French Review (3 semester credit hours) Intensive grammar review to assist students in moving from intermediate to advanced work with French texts. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisite: intermediate proficiency (usually equivalent to four semesters of undergraduate courses). (3-0) Y
HUMA 6321 Spanish Review (3 semester credit hours) Intensive grammar review to assist students in moving from intermediate to advanced work with Spanish texts. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisite: intermediate proficiency (usually equivalent to four semesters of undergraduate courses). (3-0) Y
HUMA 6323 German Review (3 semester credit hours) Intensive grammar review to assist students in moving from intermediate to advanced work with German texts. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisite: intermediate proficiency (usually equivalent to four semesters of undergraduate courses). (3-0) R
HUMA 6330 French Workshop (3 semester credit hours) Advanced reading, interpretation, and translation of texts in French. Workshop concludes with a translation examination, which comprises both the course final and the program's proficiency examination in French. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HUMA 6331 Spanish Workshop (3 semester credit hours) Advanced reading, interpretation, and translation of texts in Spanish. Workshop concludes with a translation examination, which comprises both the course final and the program's proficiency examination in Spanish. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HUMA 6333 German Workshop (3 semester credit hours) Advanced reading, interpretation, and translation of texts in German. Workshop concludes with a translation examination, which comprises both the course final and the program's proficiency examination in German. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HUMA 6390 Topics in Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) Studies of topics that incorporate multiple disciplinary materials and perspectives. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HUMA 6393 Independent Readings in Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HUMA 6395 Independent Research in Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HUMA 6V81 Special Topics in Arts and Humanities (1-9 semester credit hours) If taken as an independent study, course may count toward minimum course requirements for the MA and PhD degree. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
HUMA 7390 Advanced Topics in Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies of topics that incorporate multiple disciplinary materials and perspectives. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HUMA 7V81 Advanced Special Topics in Arts and Humanities (1-9 semester credit hours) If taken as an independent study, course may count toward minimum course requirements for the PhD degree. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
HUMA 8303 Independent Readings in Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (30 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HUMA 8305 Independent Research in Arts and Humanities (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (15 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HUMA 8V99 Dissertation (3-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([3-9]-0) R