MKT 6009 Marketing Internship (0 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. (0-0) S
MKT 6244 Digital Marketing Strategy (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. The course explores three distinct areas within marketing and sales namely, digital marketing, traditional sales prospecting, and executive sales organization and strategy. The continuing convergence of the digital marketing and sales funnels has created a strategic continuum from digital lead generation to digital sales. The course identifies the current composition of this digital continuum while providing opportunities to evaluate sales and marketing digital strategies. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
MKT 6301 (SYSM 6318) Marketing Management (3 semester credit hours) Overview of marketing management methods, principles and concepts including product, pricing, promotion and distribution decisions as well as segmentation, targeting and positioning. (3-0) S
MKT 6309 Marketing Data Analysis and Research (3 semester credit hours) Methods employed in market research and data analysis to understand consumer behavior, customer journeys, and markets so as to enable better decision-making. Topics include understanding different sources of data, survey design, experiments, and sampling plans. The course will cover the techniques used for market sizing estimation and forecasting. In addition, the course will cover the foundational concepts and techniques used in data visualization and "story-telling" for clients and management. Corequisites: MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6310 Consumer Behavior (3 semester credit hours) An exposition of the theoretical perspectives of consumer behavior along with practical marketing implication. Study of psychological, sociological and behavioral findings and frameworks with reference to consumer decision-making. Topics will include the consumer decision-making model, individual determinants of consumer behavior and environmental influences on consumer behavior and their impact on marketing. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6321 Interactive and Digital Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the theory and practice of interactive and digital marketing. Topics covered include: online-market research, consumer behavior, conversion metrics, and segmentation considerations; ecommerce, search and display advertising, audiences, search engine marketing, email, mobile, video, social networks, and the Internet of Things. (3-0) T
MKT 6322 Internet Business Models (3 semester credit hours) Topics to be covered are: consumer behavior on the Internet, advertising on the Internet, competitive strategies, market research using the Internet, brand management, managing distribution and supply chains, pricing strategies, electronic payment systems, and developing virtual organizations. Further, students learn auction theory, web content design, and clickstream analysis. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6323 Database Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Techniques to analyze, interpret, and utilize marketing databases of customers to identify a firm's best customers, understanding their needs, and targeting communications and promotions to retain such customers. Topics include: handling, creating and reading datasets, LifeTime Value, RFM and response analysis. In addition, students will learn to use SAS software. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6329 New Product Development (3 semester credit hours) Development and introduction of new products. Topics include product positioning, screening, concept development, test marketing, and branding strategies. Further students will learn to use conjoint analysis for new product development, measurement of brand equity, product line extensions, and management of services. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6330 Brand Management (3 semester credit hours) To study the role and philosophy of brand management in the strategic marketing process and the resulting effects on strategic and marketing decisions. Topics will include the strategic brand building process, segmentation and positioning for building brands, consumer behavior, brand information systems, building brand equity and the application of brand management using marketing principles. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6331 Building and Managing Professional Sales Organizations (3 semester credit hours) The focus of this course is on the development and management of a professional sales organization. The course will explore the different strategies needed for different markets (consumer, business, government, and global). While the course will examine the various training programs available, there will be relatively little emphasis on sales techniques (this is not a course to learn basic selling concepts). We examine issues related to building and managing the sales effort at various stages of the company and product lifecycle, hiring and training sales personnel, compensation and incentive plans, sales forecasting, addressing multiple product lines, multiple channels and multiple geographic regions, and developing strategic alliances. (3-0) T
MKT 6332 Advertising and Promotional Strategy (3 semester credit hours) The process of formulating promotional strategy with particular emphasis on advertising and sales promotions. Topics include behavioral theories of communication, budgeting, media selection, scheduling of advertisements, measurement of advertising effectiveness, and management different types of sales promotions. Students analyze grocery scanner data to evaluate the effectiveness of promotions. Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6333 Channels of Distribution and Retailing (3 semester credit hours) This course will study the design and implementation of channels of distribution, with particular emphasis on retailing, including electronic retailing. Topics covered will include channel coverage strategies, pricing and promotion in channels, retail services, location decisions, franchising and legal issues in channels. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
MKT 6334 Digital Sales Strategy (3 semester credit hours) The course explores three distinct areas within marketing and sales namely, digital marketing, traditional sales prospecting, and executive sales organization and strategy. The continuing convergence of the digital marketing and sales funnels has created a strategic continuum from digital lead generation to digital sales. The course identifies the current composition of this digital continuum while providing opportunities to evaluate sales and marketing digital strategies. The course will cover concepts including the difference between inbound and outbound digital marketing strategies, tracking CRM inquiries in the funnel, and lead scoring. Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6335 Advertising Research (3 semester credit hours) The course serves as a central basis for marketing communication related decision making and provides an introduction to advertising research designs and procedures. The course is practical, quantitative, and an emphases on tools and applications that take advantage of information tracking technologies in the digital environment. Topics include (1) the acquisition, evaluation, and analysis of information needed for informed advertising decision making and planning; (2) methods used in pre-testing advertising messages, post campaign (tracking studies) testing, concept testing, observational research, ethnographic research, surveys, focus groups, and various sources of secondary data; (3) new trends in advertising research such as the use of social media data and geo-location information collected from mobile devices. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
MKT 6336 Pricing Analytics (3 semester credit hours) The course covers techniques used to price goods and services based on customer analysis and software tools. Topics include value- in-use analysis and segmentation, bundling, price discrimination, product-line pricing, dynamic pricing over the product life cycle, pricing in channels, psychological and competitive pricing. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
MKT 6337 (BUAN 6337) Predictive Analytics Using SAS (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for those interested in a career in marketing analytics. Students analyze data from large databases to make important marketing decisions. These methods are commonly employed in online marketing, grocery stores, and in financial markets. Students will acquire knowledge about the tools and software that are used to understand issues such as who the profitable customers are, how to acquire them, and how to retain them. The tools can also be used to manage brand prices and promotions using scanner data as is done in supermarkets. Prerequisite: OPRE 6301 or OPRE 6359. (3-0) Y
MKT 6338 (MIS 6378) Enterprise Systems and CRM (3 semester credit hours) This course studies the theory and practice of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) in the modern enterprise. The course explores topics related to strategic customer management, customer analytics, data mining, campaign management, and partner channel management. The course will develop practical skills utilizing the mySAP.com CRM application and CRM analytics and provides a deep understanding of strategic, operational, analytical, and collaborative CRM. (3-0) R
MKT 6339 Capstone Marketing Decision Making (3 semester credit hours) This is a simulation based course where students form groups and compete for market share, profits, and stock price in a competitive fictional market. Teams make tactical decisions about production quantity, price, advertising, sales force allocation and develop new product specifications to compete with other teams for different segments in the market place. The course provides a hands-on experience in marketing decision-making and allows students to integrate the knowledge they learned to make more effective decisions. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6340 Marketing Projects (3 semester credit hours) Sponsored by local industries, these projects provide the students an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge gained to solve real world marketing problems. Students work in a team environment, interact with industry leaders, and gain industry specific knowledge. May be repeated for credits as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: OPRE 6301 and MKT 6301. (0-3) T
MKT 6341 Marketing Automation and Campaign Management (3 semester credit hours) This course provides students with both theoretical and practical knowledge using campaign management best practices. The course covers marketing automation, forecasting, account based management (ABM), data hygiene, optimization, testing, retargeting, attribution, customer journey mapping, and the leveraging of data in decision-making including the use of Watson analytics. Analytical, direct marketing, and decision-making techniques are an overarching component of the course. Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6342 Marketing Customer Insights Development (3 semester credit hours) This course provides managers with a foundation in analysis and presentation techniques. Students will learn how to create and use data visualization, apply estimation techniques, solve problems by applying frameworks and extract insights from data. The art and technique of preparing and delivering executive level presentations will be emphasized. A significant component of the course will consist of critical thinking, problem-solving and decision making techniques using in customer insight development. Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6343 Social Media Marketing and Insights (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to provide students with a theoretical foundation and working knowledge of social media tools used by marketing departments and agencies. Students learn best practices in social media marketing for brand awareness improvement, lead generation, customer relationship management, online reputation/crisis management, and word-of-mouth campaign. The course also provides a strategic foundation for both B-C and B-B environments including platform selection, data driven content, and ROI measurement of social media interventions using various metrics. The course includes a hands-on component. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) R
MKT 6344 Digital Marketing Strategy (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. The course explores the business development process and sales funnels, digital marketing, digital and social media concepts, business development analytics as well as concepts including the difference between inbound and outbound digital marketing strategies. Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6350 Competitive Marketing Strategy (3 semester credit hours) Students learn how firms develop their marketing strategy to compete effectively in different situations. Using game theory principles, they will be exposed to competitive strategies in new emerging markets, mature markets, and on the Internet. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
MKT 6352 Marketing Web Analytics and Insights (3 semester credit hours) This course covers essential and advanced techniques and best practices in web analytics such as the setup and implementation of funnels and segments, attribution, KPI's, conversion, and campaign tracking. Special emphasis is given to actionable business insights and recommendations. The course uses different web analytics platforms, some with transactional datasets. (3-0) Y
MKT 6353 Customer Analytics and Insights (3 semester credit hours) Techniques to analyze, interpret, and utilize marketing data sets for prospecting purposes and to identify and retain profitable customers. Exposure to the role of customer data platforms and their focus on omni-channel data. Techniques such as Life-Time Value, RFM, response analysis, and attribution are emphasized. Additional emphasis on developing critical thinking skills and problem solving techniques to find and present actionable insights to management. Students will be exposed to the basic concepts and rules in machine learning. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6360 Services Marketing (3 semester credit hours) To study the growing field of services marketing as a separate and distinct area of marketing thought and practice and its influence in competitive markets. The focus will be on three main services marketing areas, the service customer, the service company and the integration of marketing, human resources and operations within the service system. The course is intended to help analyze and judge the merits of services marketing strategies and assist in making strategic decisions in both business and consumer services industries. Topics will include: relationship marketing and the customer mix, understanding the service customer, external service quality: service design and delivery, the service brand, service strategy; technology and innovation, international services marketing, pricing and promotion of services. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6362 Marketing Models (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches quantitative models that are necessary when implementing marketing strategy such as segmentation, positioning, product portfolios and marketing mix variables. Companies are increasingly using and applying the modeling approach to marketing decision making. Topics and tools covered include: forecasting, product diffusion and advertising, sales force allocation and sizing models, analysis of scanner data in brand choice models, promotional profitability and more. Students will be given a rudimentary knowledge of SAS and other commercially-used software. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6365 Marketing Digital Lab (3 semester credit hours) This course offers students the opportunity to learn and work with different digital applications frequently used by marketing/advertising companies and agencies. The course incorporates the use of emerging digital tools utilized in user experience (UX) web and mobile testing, data visualization, website creation, web based apps, search engine optimization, and paid search campaigns (i.e. Google AdWords). Prerequisite: MKT 6301 and Corequisite: MKT 6321, or instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MKT 6380 (ENTP 6380) Market Entry Strategies (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses the marketing challenges facing the entrepreneurial firm, with specific emphasis on the choice and implementation of an initial market entry strategy. This choice typically involves multiple decisions, each based on critical assumptions about customers, markets and competitors. Early validation of these key assumptions is an essential element of the strategic decision process. Topics include understanding the context and the customer, developing and validating the business concept, defining the product/service offering and customer value proposition, positioning, creating awareness, and developing and implementing the market entry strategy. Credit cannot be received for both courses, ENTP 6380 and MKT 6380. Prerequisite or Corequisite: ENTP 6370 or MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6382 (ENTP 6382) Professional Selling I (3 semester credit hours) Examines the theory and practical application of the principles and art of professional selling. The course places special emphasis on mapping the sales process for new companies and new products. The course includes case studies and learning by doing live case instruction. This course also includes advanced concepts in sales such as major account acquisition, government markets, global markets, request for information, request for proposal, product line sales, adaptive product and service solutions, team selling, long sales cycles, prospecting and networking strategies, implementation and analysis of prospecting strategies, and sales management strategies for the early stage of the product lifecycle. (3-0) Y
MKT 6383 Professional Selling II (3 semester credit hours) This course uses a case based experiential approach to learning the sales process. Advanced approaches used in business mid-market to enterprise and government sales will be introduced. Students will explore inside sales, outside sales, request for information and request for proposal methods of account acquisition and management. This course will focus on both products and services in the later stage of the product lifecycle. Students will practice multi-visit role-plays in a team sales setting with existing partners of the JSOM Center for Professional Selling. (3-0) Y
MKT 6V98 Marketing Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MKT 6V99 Special Topics in Marketing (1-6 semester credit hours) Study of rapidly emerging or changing areas within marketing. The specific topic will fall under one of the following categories: advertising, branding, digital marketing, product management, sales, marketing management or marketing analytics and market research. The course may consist of participation in one or more major marketing competitions. May be lecture, readings, individualized study or team based competitions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: (MKT 6301 or MKT 6309) or instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y
MKT 7314 Marketing Models I (3 semester credit hours) Study of mathematical models used in solving marketing problems including brand switching, new product adoption, and competitive strategy models. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6302 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 7315 Marketing Models II (3 semester credit hours) Advanced study of mathematical models used in solving marketing problems including brand switching, new product adoption, and competitive strategy models. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6302 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 7316 Marketing Models III (3 semester credit hours) Study of mathematical and statistical models used in the analysis of markets and marketing problems including dynamic models of marketing mix, applications of econometric methods in marketing. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6301 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 7317 Marketing Models IV (3 semester credit hours) Advanced study of mathematical models used in the analysis of markets and marketing problems including use of game theory and modeling uncertainty. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6301 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 7V12 Research Applications in Marketing (3-4 semester credit hours) Application of multivariate methods in statistics to marketing problems including discriminant analysis, logit/probit analysis, and other multivariate applications. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6301 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. ([3-4]-0) T