COMD 5340 Articulation Disorders (3 semester hours) Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation, and treatment of articulation disorders. (3-0) Y
COMD 5341 Audiology (3 semester hours) Clinical application and interpretation in audiology. Emphasis on instrumentation and calibration considerations for air and bone conduction test, speech audiometry, cerumen management, infection control and basic masking principles. (3-0) Y
COMD 5344 Anatomy and Physiology of Speech and Hearing (3 semester hours) Study of anatomic and physiologic mechanisms underlying speech: respiration, phonation, and articulation. Overview of the peripheral auditory system. (3-0) Y
COMD 6101 Childhood Apraxia of Speech (1 semester hour) Current research topics in the assessment and management of children of all ages with Childhood Apraxia of Speech. Includes recent developments in prosody, oral motor therapy, profiling characteristics, articulatory error consistency, augmentative communication, integral stimulation intervention, and diagnostic criteria. Pre-requisite: COMD 6320. (1-0) S
COMD 6102 Dysphagia in Public Schools (1 semester hour) Current research topics in dysphagia assessment and management of children of all ages in the public school setting. Includes program development, legislative information, treatment plans in the IEP, and ethical considerations. Prerequisite: COMD 7303. (1-0) S
COMD 6103 Research in Pediatric TBI (1 semester hour) Current research topics in the assessment and management of children of all ages with traumatic brain injury. Includes clinical characteristics of acute dysphagia in children with TBI, recovery of memory function, articulatory function, executive function, and inference comprehension skills in children with TBI. Prerequisites: COMD 6377, COMD 7378. (1-0) S
COMD 6104 Dysphagia in Infancy (1 semester hour) Assessment and management of infants and with feeding and swallowing impairments. Include review of anatomy and physiology of suck/swallow/breathe triad, diagnostic and test procedures in the NICU and hospital setting, clinical feeding evaluation of infants in the NICU and hospital, therapeutic treatment strategies for infants with dysphagia, special medical populations, and breast feeding. Prerequisite: COMD 7303. (1-0) S
COMD 6105 Professional Writing (1 semester hour) Professional reports, and professional writing covering behavioral objectives, discharge planning, and report formats. (1-0) S
COMD 6106 Medical SLP (1 semester hour) Medical terminology and scope of practice of the medical SLP. Topics include assessment of aphasia, cognitive rehabilitation after TBI, diagnostic approaches to dementia, communication impairment and management of dementia, assessment and management of dysphagia, voice disorders, head and neck cancer, psychogenic communication disorders, issues in geriatric medicine and drug induced communication and swallowing disorders. (1-0) S
COMD 6107 Dementia (1 semester hour) Diagnosis, treatment, and current best practice in the management of the dementias. Prerequisite: COMD 6377. (1-0) S
COMD 6108 Pulmonary Issues (1 semester hour) Issues related to respiration and swallowing coordination in normal aging and patients with specific respiratory conditions (i.e., aspiration pneumonia, COPD, Parkinsonism, patients on mechanical ventilation). Normal and disordered respiratory systems, and assessment/management considerations for patients with specific respiratory issues are discussed. Prerequisite: COMD 7303. (1-0) S
COMD 6109 Trachs and Vent (1 semester hour) Communication, respiration and swallowing issues/considerations as they relate to patients who require tracheostomy tubes and/or ventilators. Normal and disordered respiratory systems, oral and nonoral communication and assessment/management of dysphagia. Prerequisite: COMD 7303. (1-0) S
COMD 6110 Pediatric Feeding (1 semester hour) Assessment and management of infants and children of all ages with feeding and swallowing impairments. Includes recent developments in the field of swallowing disorders including advances in technology, surgery and pharmacology, and management of pediatric patients with dysphagia. Prerequisite: COMD 7303. (1-0) S
COMD 6221 Voice Disorders (2 semester hours) Etiology of voice disorders and methods for assessing and modifying vocal behavior. (2-0) Y
COMD 6222 Stuttering (2 semester hours) Principles, methods, and procedures for assessment, and intervention of stuttering and associated disorders. (2-0) Y
COMD 6240 Professional Issues in Speech/Language Pathology (2 semester hours) Insights into the real-world and a means to master objectives as a professional in the field of speech-language pathology. (2-0) R
COMD 6305 Speech Science (3 semester hours) Anatomy, physiology and functional organization of speech. Mechanisms of normal speech production and perception with applications to the clinical setting. Pass/Fail only. (3-0) Y
COMD 6307 Language Acquisition (3 semester hours) Development of the phonological, morpho-syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic aspects of language, and consideration of the social, psychological, and cultural influences. (3-0) Y
COMD 6317 Language in Communication Disorders (3 semester hours) Basic processes underlying language disruptions in phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics. Biological and social aspects of language. (3-0) Y
COMD 6320 Motor Speech Disorders (3 semester hours) Anatomic and physiologic bases of the motor speech mechanism. Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation and treatment techniques for a variety of motor speech disorders in children and adults. (3-0) Y
COMD 6348 Counseling for Communication Disorders Professionals (3 semester hours) Psychological aspects of communication disorders in the context of the family system. Basic counseling and problem-solving skills to use as an adjunct to roles as communication disorders professionals. Emphasis on helping students to gain comfort and skill in coping with their clients' emotions and giving their clients constructive feedback. (3-0) R
COMD 6377 Neurogenic Communication Disorders I (3 semester hours) Introduction to adult neurogenic communication disorders including neuropathology, assessment and diagnosis of aphasia, traumatic brain injury, right hemispheric impairment, and dementia. (3-0) Y
COMD 6378 Neurogenic Communication Disorders II (3 semester hours) Language and cognitive intervention for individuals with adult neurogenic communication disorders with management of special populations including stroke, traumatic brain injury and dementia. (3-0) Y
COMD 6630 Internship in Communication Disorders (6 semester hours) Intensive internship program in a clinical setting. Pass/Fail only. (May be repeated for credit.) Prerequisite: Consent of instructor (6-0) S
COMD 6v98 Thesis (3-6 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) ([3-6]-0) S
COMD 7172 Laryngectomy (1 semester hour) Laryngectomy process from surgery to rehabilitation, emotional issues related to the rehabilitative process, alaryngeal devices and how to use them. TEP, stoma, and trach care, and strategies to help patients master esophageal speech. (1-0) Y
COMD 7173 Methods in Pediatric Aural Habilitation - Part I (1 semester hour) Discussion of topics related to the management of children with hearing loss with specific reference to observation experiences. In addition, introduction to audiometric testing, hearing aids, assistive technology, and Deaf Culture is provided. There is also practice of basic sign language as the vocabulary relates to these topics. (May be repeated for credit.) (1-0) R
COMD 7174 Methods in Pediatric Aural Habilitation - Part II (1 semester hour) Speech, language, and learning assessments for students with hearing loss and auditory management skills. Troubleshooting hearing aids, cochlear implants, and assistive technology is reviewed. Development of sign language skills through group practice and community service projects. (May be repeated for credit.) (1-0) R
COMD 7204 Craniofacial Disorders (2 semester hours) Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation, and treatment of craniofacial disorders emphasizing cleft lip and palate. (2-0) Y
COMD 7207 Advanced Topics in Dysphagia (2 semester hours) Integration and application of dysphagia evaluation and treatment at an advanced level. Management of special populations including stroke, traumatic brain injury and oral/largyngeal cancers. Family and patient counseling/education. Ethical issues and decision-making. Prerequisite: COMD 7303. (2-0) Y
COMD 7301 Public School Methods (3 semester hours) Practices and procedures of implementing clinical skills in the public schools including applying federal and state laws to best practices in assessment and intervention. (3-0) Y
COMD 7302 Seminar in Aphasiology (3 semester hours) Current issues in neurolinguistics. Models of brain and language; classification, symptoms, and etiology of aphasia. Analysis of aphasic language with respect to phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics. (3-0) Y
COMD 7303 Dysphagia (3 semester hours) Anatomic and physiologic bases of normal swallowing. Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation and treatment techniques for swallowing disorders in children and adults. (3-0) Y
COMD 7305 Communication and the Aging Brain (3 semester hour) Social and biological factors affecting language and communication in normal aging. Pathological changes in aphasia and dementia. Assessment and intervention strategies. (3-0) Y
COMD 7306 Cultural Issues in Communication (3 semester hours) The multicultural nature of society, the role of language and communication in cultural identity, and how practice in the field of communicative disorders is tailored to cultural and linguistic diversity. (3-0) Y
COMD 7308 Preliteracy Development (3 semester hours) Historical, cultural, theoretical, developmental, and pedagogical perspectives on the foundation for literacy in early childhood. (3-0) T
COMD 7309 (HCS 7309) Neural Correlates of Human Cognition: Lesion-Deficit Models (3 semester hours) Correlation of brain lesions with cognitive deficits provides a human brain map of the essential anatomic underlying specific cognitive functions. The areas of cognition to be covered using this model include language, episodic memory, semantic memory, working memory, aspects of visuospatial functions, and higher-order motor planning. This knowledge base provides a key framework to combine with the findings of functional neuroimaging (fMRI, PET) in understanding how humans think. Cognitive deficits in patients (e.g., amnesia, aphasia, etc.) will be explained within this framework. (3-0) Y
COMD 7323 Auditory-Verbal Methods (3 semester hours) Comprehensive survey of the auditory-verbal approach to the habilitation of children with hearing losses from infancy through the early elementary years; includes philosophy, research, special problems, and specific methodology. (3-0) Y
COMD 7324 (AUD 7324, ACN 7324) Seminar in Cochlear Implants and Technology for Persons with Hearing Impairments (3 semester hours) Overview of prosthetic alternatives to conventional amplification for individuals with severe-to-profound hearing loss. Topics include candidacy determination, technology, programming/fitting of devices, aural (re)habilitation, and awareness of controversial areas related to cochlear implantation. (3-0) Y
COMD 7325 Hearing and Deafness (3 semester hours) Introduction to issues, assessment, and management of hearing-impairment. Includes principles and prerequisites for intervention, amplification, aural habilitation programs, sign language, and deaf culture. (3-0) Y
COMD 7336 (HDCD 6365) Social Communication in Early Childhood Disorders (3 semester hours) Development of infant and toddler cognitive, social, communication and language skills are explored through major theories, current research and application to disorders. Emphasis is placed on functional assessments and intervention for children with social communication disorders functioning at the prelinguistic and emerging language stages. (3-0) Y
COMD 7339 (AUD 7339) Evidence-Based Practice in Communication Disorders (3 semester hours) Evidence-based practice as a paradigm for identifying, appraising, and using high-quality evidence to plan research studies and to make decisions about clinical practice. (3-0) Y
COMD 7345 Pediatric Traumatic Brain Injury (3 semester hours) Assessment and management of acquired brain injury in children including linguistic, cognitive, psychosocial, educational, and neurological factors within a brain plasticity framework. (3-0) T
COMD 7378 Assessment and Intervention of Language Impairments in Preschool and School-Age Children (3 semester hours) Assessment and intervention for children with diverse language impairments. Theoretical models, characteristics and correlates of pediatric language disorders; evidence-based approaches to screening, diagnosis, assessment, treatment, and prevention. (3-0) Y
COMD 7379 (HCS 7379) Current Research in Autism (3 semester hours) Exploration of research theories related to Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) and the implications the disability has on an individual's learning, behavior and ability to process information. Topics may include: diagnostic classification, the evaluation process, current theoretical models, intervention models, research on potential causes and treatments, provisions for service delivery and areas of impairment. (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) Y
COMD 7384 Augmentative Communication (3 semester hours) Components and dimensions of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems. AAC assessment and intervention for individuals with congenital and acquired complex communication needs. Includes hands on AAC equipment labs. (3-0) Y
COMD 7389 Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders (3 semester hours) Clinical characteristics, diagnosis, cognitive-linguistic evaluation discourse based assessment, and direct and indirect intervention of adults with different dementias such as Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementias, and vascular dementia. (3-0) R
COMD 7392 Language Disorders, Learning Disabilities, and Dyslexia (3 semester hours) Theoretical models concerning the relationships among language disorders, learning disabilities, and dyslexia. Typical and atypical language and literacy development, definitional and diagnostic issues, and evidence-based treatment approaches for deficits in phonological processing, reading fluency, reading comprehension and compensatory meta-cognitive strategies. (3-0) Y
COMD 7v19 Birth-To-Three (1-3 semester hours) Assessment and treatment of infants and toddlers with a variety of speech, language, feeding, and oral-motor disorders. ([1-3]-0) Y
COMD 7v56 Assessment and Intervention with Bilingual Populations (1-3 semester hours) Evaluation procedures and intervention strategies of culturally and linguistically diverse populations. Demographics, second language acquisition, acculturation, bilingual education models and differentiating between language difference vs. language disorders. ([1-3]-0) T
COMD 7v62 Seminar in Autism (1-3 semester hours) Issues concerning the diagnosis and theories of autism. The development of social, communication/language, and cognitive skills in autism, as well as various therapeutic approaches. ([1-3]-0) Y
COMD 7v68 Cognitive Rehabilitation (1-3 semester hours) Study of normal and impaired aspects of cognition as it relates to communication, including attention, memory, and executive function with an emphasis on current evidence supporting evaluation and treatment in the adult rehabilitation setting. ([1-3]-0) R
COMD 7v73 Seminar in Hearing and Speech Science (1-6 semester hours) Current topics in hearing and speech science. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-6]-0) T
COMD 7v82 Special Topics in Communication Disorders (1-6 semester hours) Selected topics and current research in communication disorders. Topics will vary from semester to semester. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-6]-0) R
COMD 7v86 Special Topics in Child Language (1-6 semester hours) Current issues in child language emphasizing research on intervention practices. Specific topics vary from semester to semester. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-6]-0) R
COMD 7v90 Special Topics in Hearing and Speech Science (1-6 semester hours) Special topics and current research in hearing and speech science. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-6]-0) R
COMD 7v91 Methods in Communication Disorders (1-6 semester hours) Issues related to methods of assessment and intervention in communication disorders. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-6]-0) R
COMD 7v98 Directed Study in Communication Disorders (1-9 semester hours) Individualized program of study which may include reading, research implementation of clinical strategies and/or other designated activities. Pass/Fail only. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-9]-0) S
COMD 8v80 Research in Communication Disorders (1-9 semester hours) Supervised research experience in communication disorders. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-9]-0) S