HUHI 6300 History of Early Modern Thought (3 semester hours) Introduction to and examination of the authors and texts influential in shaping Western culture through the eighteenth century. The course will treat philosophy as well as social, political, and religious thought during particular periods. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6301 History of Modern Thought (3 semester hours) Introduction to and examination of the authors and texts influential in shaping modern Western culture since 1800. The course will treat philosophy as well as social, political, and religious thought during particular periods. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6305 Ideas in Contexts (3 semester hours) The study of an idea or ideas in specific cultural, historical, or disciplinary circumstances. Topics may include the idea of revolution considered in theory as well as in the American, French, and Bolshevik Revolutions; the idea of creativity in science, art, philosophy, and psychology; the interaction of science and religion from various perspectives. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6313 Thought, Culture, and Society in Europe (3 semester hours) Themes in the intellectual and cultural life of European societies. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6314 Thought, Culture, and Society in the United States (3 semester hours) Themes in the intellectual, cultural, and philosophical history of the United States. The course will focus on the writings of key thinkers chosen from different periods and on placing these writings within their intellectual and social contexts. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6315 Thought, Culture, and Society in Latin America (3 semester hours) Themes in the intellectual and cultural life of Latin American societies. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUHI 6320 Perceptions of the Past (3 semester hours) Approaches to perceiving, reconstructing, appreciating, and analyzing the past. Formal historiographical methods, the fictionalization of the past, or the understanding of memory and nostalgia may be emphasized. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6323 Space, Time, and Culture (3 semester hours) The study of the relationship between changing philosophic and scientific concepts of space and time and forms of cultural expression such as art, literature, and music. (3-0) T
HUHI 6325 Movements in Thought and Culture (3 semester hours) The study of movements in thought and culture through a variety of perspectives, but emphasizing their intellectual bases: e.g., the Enlightenment, Romanticism, etc. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6327 Artist and Writer in Society (3 semester hours) Inquiries into the role and activities of creative artists (e.g., painters, sculptors, musicians, writers, filmmakers, comics creators, game designers) in various places and times. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6329 Philosophical Issues and the Humanities (3 semester hours) An investigation philosophical problems and traditions in continental philosophy, hermeneutics, as well as philosophy of science and technology. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6332 European Enlightenment (3 semester hours) The study of the European intellectual movement of the Enlightenment, its precursors and consequences. (3-0) T
HUHI 6334 Exploring Urban Cultures (3 semester hours) The study of the European cities of Berlin, Paris, and London from the mid-nineteenth through the early twentieth century. (3-0) T
HUHI 6335 Modern Jewish Thought (3 semester hours) Study of modern and contemporary Jewish thought, with an emphasis on the relationship between Judaism and philosophy. (3-0) T
HUHI 6336 Modernity, Culture, and the Jews (3 semester hours) The study of the role of Jews in the creation of modern culture, with emphasis on Jewish participation as an area of interaction, exchange, and encounter. (3-0) T
HUHI 6337 Moving Pictures in Jewish Culture and Thought (3 semester hours) The study of the role of Jews in the movie industry from the silent era to contemporary Hollywood production. (3-0) T
HUHI 6338 The Holocaust (3 semester hours) An examination of the event, its background and consequences, with emphasis on the political, psychological, theological, and artistic responses it has engendered. (May be repeated for credit to maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) Y
HUHI 6340 Readings in American Culture (3 semester hours) An examination of the ways in which Americans have defined themselves, and been defined by others, over time. Works read will be drawn from a variety of genres and may include studies of myth and symbol. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6341 American Intellectual History (3 semester hours) The study of American thought from the seventeenth century to the present, with a focus on philosophy, political thought, and social thought. (3-0) T
HUHI 6342 American Political Cultures (3 semester hours) An inquiry into the development of political cultures in the United States since the late eighteenth century. Emphasis on how the apparatus of the state (courts, legislatures, elections, schools, asylums, the military) has provided formal frameworks for ongoing cultural contests among diverse Americans over the meanings of citizenship, family, work, property, nature, health, and privacy. (3-0) T
HUHI 6343 The American Experience in Vietnam (3 semester hours) The study of the reaction and response of American society to the political, military, and cultural turmoil engendered by the Vietnam War. (3-0) T
HUHI 6344 The 1960s (3 semester hours) The study of the "Long Decade" of the 1960s, from Elvis to the fall of Richard Nixon. The course will analyze political, economic, social, and cultural developments. (3-0) T
HUHI 6345 The Woman Question (3 semester hours) The study of how particular cultures and/or thinkers have defined the "woman question". Subjects may include particular geographical regions, major literary or historical movements and events. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6346 New Directions in Southern Studies (3 semester hours) The study of how scholarship on the U.S. South has begun to push the conventional boundaries of the discipline through its focus on the categories of race, gender, sexuality, and transnationalism. (3-0) T
HUHI 6348 Thought, Culture, and Society in Asia (3 semester hours) Themes in the intellectual and cultural life of Asian societies. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUHI 6349 Thought, Culture, and Society in the Middle East (3 semester hours) Themes in the intellectual and cultural life of Middle Eastern societies. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUHI 6351 History and Philosophy of Science and Technology (3 semester hours) The study of one or more topics in history or philosophy of science, technology, or medicine. For example, science and values, science and democracy, philosophy of information technology, feminist philosophy of science, history of psychology, foundations of physics, biomedical ethics. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6355 Twentieth Century Philosophy (3 semester hours) This course will focus on major thinkers and texts within 20th-Century European or American philosophy taking up a variety of issues, e.g., ethics, technology, hermeneutics, phenomenology, epistemology or philosophy of science. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUHI 6395 Topics in the History of Ideas (3 semester hours) Topics in philosophy, intellectual and/or cultural history. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 6396 Historical Inquiry (3 semester hours) A leveling course for graduate students with little background in the field as an advanced introduction to historical study and the history of ideas. (3-0) R
HUHI 6397 Independent Readings in History of Ideas (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R
HUHI 6398 Independent Research in History of Ideas (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R
HUHI 6399 Special Topics in the History of Ideas (3 semester hours) Independent studies course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the M.A. degree. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7313 Advanced Topics in U.S. Thought, Culture, and Society (3 semester hours) Advanced topics in the intellectual and cultural history of the United States. The course will focus on key thinkers, ideas, schools of thought, or cultural beliefs chosen from different periods and understood within their intellectual and social contexts. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUHI 7314 Advanced Topics in European Thought, Culture, and Society (3 semester hours) Advanced topics in the intellectual and cultural life of European societies. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUHI 7315 Advanced Topics in Thought, Culture, and Society (3 semester hours) Advanced topics in intellectual and cultural history. The course may focus on different themes, periods, and geographical areas. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUHI 7330 The History of Hermeneutics (3 semester hours) Studies in the history of hermeneutics as a biblical-philological method and its transformation by the modern German tradition into a philosophical approach to language and experience. Focus on the work of Schleiermacher, Dilthey, Heidegger, and Gadamer. (3-0) T
HUHI 7332 Topics in Recent Continental Philosophy (3 semester hours) Close textual study of the works of leading continental philosophers such as Nietzsche, Derrida, Foucault, Heidegger, Husserl, and others. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7335 Philosophical Topics in the Analytic Tradition (3 semester hours) Examination of philosophical issues arising from or inspired by the works of Russell, Wittgenstein, Frege, Carnap, and their heirs, including Popper, Quine, and Sellars. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7340 New Currents in the History of Ideas (3 semester hours) Exploration of significant recent approaches that represent major disciplinary and interdisciplinary contributions to the field. With emphasis on theory and method, focus falls upon critical study of new interests that include 'new' social and cultural histories, mentalities, post-structuralism, feminism, critical theory, institutionalist history, and hermeneutics, among others. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7368 Topics in Thought and Society (3 semester hours) Studies in ideas, institutions, and applied history. The approach may be comparative or limited to a single cultural or geographical area. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7387 Science and Technology in Western Culture (3 semester hours) Topics will vary but may include consideration of the philosophical or historical basis for the evolution of scientific thought; the problem of conceptual change in the study of the fundamental character of technology and its impact on culture. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7391 Women in European Society (3 semester hours) A historical examination of the varied experiences of European women, focusing on work, family life, political action, sexuality, and cultural expression. May emphasize early modern or modern period. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7397 Women in American Society (3 semester hours) A historical examination of the varied experiences of American women, focusing on work, family life, political action, sexuality, and cultural expression. May emphasize early modern or modern period. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 7399 Advanced Special Topics in the History of Ideas (3 semester hours) Independent studies course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the Ph.D. degree. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 hours.) (3-0) R
HUHI 8303 Independent Readings in History of Ideas (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R
HUHI 8305 Independent Research in History of Ideas (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R