MAIS 5300 Interdisciplinary Seminar (3 semester hours) Topics will vary each semester. (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) S
MAIS 5301 Seminar on Close Relationships (3 semester hours) An examination of the psychological, sociological, economic, and philosophical approaches to the study of close relationships. Specific issues that will be discussed include male-female differences, intimacy and self-disclosure, loneliness, conflict. (3-0) Y
MAIS 5302 Capstone Seminar (3 semester hours) Topics will vary. The seminar includes discussion of interdisciplinary theory and preparation for a research project. Must be taken in the student's next-to-last semester. (3-0) S
MAIS 5303 Research Project (3 semester hours) Completion of an interdisciplinary research project. Prerequisite: MAIS 5302. (Students on academic probation may not enroll for MAIS 5303.) (3-0) S
MAIS 5313 Doing Business in Greater China (3 semester hours) A study of Mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong with the focus on economic development and current participation in the global economy. The course reviews the experience of multinational corporations and examines strategies of doing business in Greater China. The course also explores how the digital revolution reshapes the three economies. (3-0) R
MAIS 5315 Globalization and Economic Crisis (3 semester hours) Studies the development of globalization and its impact on different economies and cultures. Also, the course will concentrate on the various waves of economic crisis with a historical depth and a global perspective. The main focus is on the United States, China, India, Japan, the Middle East, Russia and Western Europe. (3-0) T
MAIS 5316 Managing The Digital Economy (3 semester hours) Examines how the digital economy (chip-making, computing, IT services, and telecommunications) has transformed American business. Knowledge workers need to cultivate skills in leadership, communication, entrepreneurship, finance, and project/workplace management. (3-0) Y
MAIS 5320 Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 semester hours) Topics will vary each semester. May be repeated for credit. (3-0) S
MAIS 5321 Library Research Skills (3 semester hours) Through this online course, graduate students will develop the skills to identify what information is needed for their research, how to find and evaluate scholarly resources, and how to organize the information for a thesis or dissertation. Primary, secondary, and tertiary sources; identifying appropriate research methodologies; assessing quantity, quality and relevance of search results and citation management will be included. (3-0) Y
MAIS 5333 Developmental Characteristics of 9-14 Year Olds (3 semester hours) This course is designed for students interested in gaining knowledge and in developing their understanding of the middle school aged child, the issues both physical and emotional, attached to this stage. Concepts in adolescent development and current research regarding children aged 9-14 years are examined. Various perspectives on strategies and techniques in working with adolescents are also a focus in this course. (3-0) T
MAIS 5335 Crisis Communication in Schools & Organizations (3 semester hours) An advanced in depth look into crisis communication, strategies and management focusing on organizational and educational institutional responses in crisis situations. Specific past crisis events are examined, positive and negative responses are dissected, lessons learned are investigated and future management strategies for organizations, agencies and schools are formulated so that students may take these skills back to their respective current and future employment environments and implement these strategies. (3-0) T
MAIS 5336 Qualitative Research Methods (3 semester hours) This is a hands-on, practically-oriented, how-to-do-it seminar that is ideal for those who intend to utilize qualitative research methods in their research or simply wish to gain further insight into how qualitative data is gathered and analyzed. The primary objective of this course is to mutually explore learn a range of skills, methods, techniques, and "tricks of the trade" that will facilitate successful data gathering. The course provides a solid analytical background while also exposing participants to qualitative methodology through facilitations of a team-based qualitative research project. (3-0) R
MAIS 5390 Costa Rica Experience (3 semester hours) Costa Rica is world famous for its dedication to the concept of sustainability. This field trip class will visit different locations in Costa Rica to better understand the diversity of its environment, its non-human primates, its practices that of course may vary from year to year but the major emphasis is sustainability. This course has a service learning component. Student must be in good standing. Permission of instructor required. (3-0) R
MAIS 5v04 Independent Study (1-6 semester hours) Available only to meet particular curricular needs of an individual degree plan. Prerequisite: consent of instructor and approval of MAIS adviser. (May be repeated for credit.) ([1-6]-0) S