PA 6300 Quality and Productivity Improvement in Government (3 semester hours) Examines the implications and challenges of improving public sector quality and productivity. Provides practical methods for improving government productivity and quality efforts. Provides tools for measuring performance and for managing performance. (3-0) R
PA 6311 Public Management (3 semester hours) The application of ideas and techniques of public management and decision-making to examine the various roles of the general manager in public organizations. Utilizes the case method. (3-0) S
PA 6313 Public Policymaking and Institutions (3 semester hours) Surveys the major institutions associated with policymaking, including Congress, the Presidency, the bureaucracy, and interest groups. These institutions are studied by linking them to the decision-making theories of organizations, social choice and incrementalism. (3-0) S
PA 6314 Policy Analysis (3 semester hours) This course introduces students to policy analysis, exploring approaches and providing tools to analyze contemporary policy questions at various levels of governance. (3-0) R
PA 6316 Leadership in Public and Nonprofit Management (3 semester hours) This course will examine the major theories and practices of leadership in public and nonprofit organizations. Effective leaders from public and nonprofit organizations will speak to the class about the challenges of leading in complex environments. (3-0) R
PA 6317 (PSCI 6317) Intergovernmental/Intersectoral Relations and Management (3 semester hours) This course explores the conceptual foundations of federalism that prescribe the relationships among federal and state governments in the U.S. It considers the practice of intergovernmental administration (federal, state, local) and intersectoral management (public, private, nonprofit) including devolution, fiscal federalism, and through a review of current issues in the field. (3-0) Y
PA 6318 Information Systems in Policy Environments (3 semester hours) Overview of the technology, role and management of computer-based information systems in policy environments. Provides the managerial foundation for effective decision-making with respect to information technology implementation in public organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 6319 Topics in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours. (3-0) S
PA 6320 Organizational Theory (3 semester hours) Focuses on bureaucracy and rationality, formal and informal structures, and the role of the environment. Organizational factors such as technology, power, information, and culture, as well as the implications of organizational theory for public policy are examined. (3-0) T
PA 6321 Government Financial Management and Budgeting (3 semester hours) Management of government finances, including revenue collection and enforcement, cash and debt management, investments, general and special funds, controllership, financial and program audits, purchasing, financial reporting, managerial use of governmental accounting systems, GAO and professional accounting standards. (3-0) S
PA 6324 Community Planning (3 semester hours) This course examines local issues involving growth and development on the local level of government. Specifically, it examines land use planning, zoning, subdivision regulations, and the processes that are involved with these issues. (3-0) R
PA 6326 Decision Tools for Managers (3 semester hours) This course introduces students to the variety of analytical and mathematical tools intended to improve management decision-making. Cognitive failures in decision-making and remedies are also explored. Tools range from systems analysis to techniques of management science. Uses available software for management science studies. (3-0) Y
PA 6327 Land Use Law and Ethics (3 semester hours) This course covers two key elements of the planning profession: ethics and law as they relate to plan implementation. Community planning actions and decisions can impact the social and economic welfare of people, neighborhoods, cities, and regions in nontrivial ways. Ethics play an important role in guiding the planner, telling us what we should do. (3-0) Y
PA 6328 Management Process and Analysis (3 semester hours) This course examines rigorous methods for analyzing management processes and decision-making. Focuses on the examination, critique and design of management systems. (3-0) T
PA 6330 Basics of Land Development (3 semester hours) Land development is the conversion of land from one use to another. This course emphasizes key concepts of land use practices utilized by local governments in the Dallas metroplex. Land use planning includes use for residential, commercial, industrial, as well as recreational, educational, social, and cultural activities. (3-0) Y
PA 6335 Resource Development for Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course examines sources of revenue for nonprofit organizations. Specific topics include fundraising, grant writing, and donor dynamics. The course is designed to prepare the student to work effectively as a member of a fundraising team - either as staff or volunteer board member. (3-0) R
PA 6336 Bureaucracy and Public Policy (3 semester hours) This course examines federal agencies, which fall under the executive branch of government. The course reviews the roles of federal agencies in the policy-making process; the recruitment and retention of public managers and political appointees; the external and internal forces that shape the missions and operations of bureaucracies and their stakeholders; the creation and development of federal agencies; the sources and myths regarding red-tape; and the efficacy of various bureaucratic reform efforts in the U.S. This course is historical and theoretical, as well as a practical guide for those interested in public management or public service. (3-0) R
PA 6337 Capital Budgeting (3 semester hours) This course analyzes capital planning and budgeting as central features to economic development, transportation, communication, and to the delivery of other essential services. The course details the steps needed to provide the physical structure of local government, from selecting capital projects to planning how to pay for those projects to structuring and selling debt. (3-0) R
PA 6342 (ECON 6372) Local Economic Development (3 semester hours) This class will examine the role of local governments in promoting economic development in the United States, and will analyze the economic development process. Attention will be given to economic theories of local development and practical implications of those theories. Topics include local economic development and poverty, tax incentives, infrastructure credits, firm location decisions and effects of government competition for economic activity. (3-0) S
PA 6344 State/Local Government Management (3 semester hours) This course examines structure of local governments, the roles of key elected and appointed officials, and numerous issues and problems that local government managers and policymakers face. It also presents for discussion and study some of the best management practices that local government managers use in achieving effective and efficient delivery of services. There is a focus on local government management in the Dallas metro area through interaction with elected and appointed officials. (3-0) T
PA 6345 Human Resources Management (3 semester hours) Examines theories, principles, and practices of human resources management in public organizations. Explores implications of social and administrative values as expressed in current human resource policies. (3-0) S
PA 6348 Navigating the Government Workplace (3 semester hours) The governmental workplace is often a complicated work environment with numerous stakeholders. This practical course explores the challenges that public managers face at all levels of government in having successful careers. (3-0) Y
PA 6351 (CRIM 6351) Introduction to Homeland Security (3 semester hours) This course provides a comprehensive overview of the structure of Homeland Security, its origins and developing trends and challenges. Selected material from Congress, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Justice, local, state, and other government and non-government agencies will be studied. Examines both historical and contemporary Homeland Defense and Security issues. (3-0) Y
PA 6353 Emergency Management (3 semester hours) This course examines issues related to the management of emergencies including discussion of emergency preparedness, emergency mitigation, and emergency response. The course will also discuss the interplay of local, state, and federal actors in emergency response as well as the role of government, private, and nonprofit organizations in emergency response. (3-0) T
PA 6354 Transportation Planning (3 semester hours) Transportation planning is the process of making useful information available to decision-makers at the organizational level to better understand the characteristics and constraints of transportation systems. This class explores transportation planning processes, the characteristics of urban travel, as well as management and analytical techniques that deal with the dynamics of urbanization and land use. (3-0) R
PA 6369 Grant Writing and Management (3 semester hours) This course provides the skills and knowledge to seek, solicit, and receive grant awards from foundation and government sources to support public and nonprofit programs and projects. Also covered are the skill sets necessary to manage grants effectively to provide the greatest value to your organization and to the granting agency. (3-0) Y
PA 6370 Project and Contract Management (3 semester hours) This course examines issues related to the management of large projects with particular attention to the management of contracts and grants to third parties. This course will discuss the justifications for contracting out public work, methods of oversight of contracts, and the steps in planning these large projects. The course will also discuss the implications of project planning for grant writing. (3-0) T
PA 6374 Financial Management for Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course introduces the basic concepts of third sector financial literacy. Curriculum includes financial planning and budgeting, monitoring of contracts and grants and reporting mechanisms. (3-0) R
PA 6380 (SOC 6380) Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course examines issues related to the rise, scope, development, and impact of nonprofit organizations. The course explores both the unique missions of nonprofit organizations and the management challenges posed by this expanding sector. (3-0) T
PA 6382 (SOC 6381) Nonprofit Management (3 semester hours) This course examines issues, strategies, and techniques related to executive leadership and management in nonprofit organizations. (3-0) R
PA 6399 Capstone in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) The capstone in public affairs is the culminating experience for graduating MPA students. Students integrate knowledge from across the MPA curriculum in a faculty-directed semester-long applied research project. (3-0) Y
PA 7305 Leadership and Change in Public and Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) Examines the range of contemporary theories of leadership and change in public/nonprofit settings. Examines the set of actions and behaviors requisite for leading contemporary organizations and provides applied tools for enacting change and adapting models of change to varied organizational settings. (3-0) Y
PA 7308 Social Networks and Intelligence Led Policing (3 semester hours) Provides a comprehensive study of concepts and methods for adopting intelligence as a foundation of law enforcement business operations for sound decision-making. Exploiting social networks is a primary means for preventing terrorism and crime. The course explores how intelligence led policing depends on creating strong community social networks to enhance policing of criminal networks. (3-0) R
PA 7314 Advanced Policy Process, Implementation and Evaluation (3 semester hours) This advanced seminar provides in-depth introduction to central theories of the policy process, implementation and evaluation, reviews classic and contemporary literature in the field, and introduces students to key approaches to public policy research. (3-0) Y
PA 7317 Microeconomics and Policy Analysis (3 semester hours) This course draws on microeconomic theories to understand public policy analysis. Major topics include but are not limited to operation of market systems, market failure, welfare economics, public goods and cost-benefit analysis. (3-0) S
PA 7318 Ethics, Culture and Public Responsibility (3 semester hours) This course provides a general consideration of traditions of ethical thought, the interactions between personal behavior and cultural groups/norms and the implementation of public responsibility. Topics to be considered will include tensions between personal and collective goals, the nature and limits of tolerance, and the role of institutions such as the family, government, business, churches and interest groups. (3-0) S
PA 7320 Advanced Human Capital Research and Theory (3 semester hours) This advanced seminar reviews the classic and contemporary literature on human resources management and related issues, presents key theories and explores key approaches to human capital research and analysis, and explores contemporary issues of human capital development in the public/nonprofit sectors. (3-0) Y
PA 7322 Negotiations for Effective Management (3 semester hours) Students in this course will learn about negotiations, principally in the public sector, and will develop and practice skills to become more proficient negotiators and more effective managers. The course will be a combination of learning about negotiations and participating in exercises and simulated negotiations. The exercises and simulations reinforce theories about the role of negotiations in effective management and enable students to develop their own negotiation skills. (3-0) Y
PA 7325 Survey of Public Affairs (3 semester hours) This class examines current issues and challenges in the field of public affairs, with emphasis on the four fields that comprise the PhD program: leadership, change and conflict resolution; social policy and development; decision-making; and management and organizational analysis. The concept and practice of action research will also be explored within the context of public affairs. Open only to PhD students in Public Affairs. (3-0) Y
PA 7328 Economic Theory for Public Affairs (3 semester hours) This course examines concepts and analytical tools of economics and demonstrates how these concepts are used in analyzing public policy problems and designing appropriate responses. Following an exposition of the basic theoretical and analytical concepts in a public policy context, the course examines the role and limitations of economics in public policy making. (3-0) R
PA 7330 Research Design in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) Includes a variety of applied research techniques aimed at enhancing analysis of intra-organizational and extra-organizational settings. Both qualitative and quantitative techniques will be explored and applied. Techniques range from ethnographic analysis of organizational and social cultures to development of survey research methods for needs assessment, environmental sensing and marketing. Prerequisite: EPPS 6313 or equivalent. (3-0) Y
PA 7340 (PSCI 7340) Intergovernmental and Intersectoral Relations (3 semester hours) This course explores the conceptual foundations of federalism that prescribe the relationships among federal and state governments in the U.S. It considers the practice of intergovernmental administration (federal, state, local) and intersectoral management (public, private, nonprofit) including devolution, fiscal federalism, and through a review of current issues in the field. (3-0) R
PA 7350 Advanced Organizational Theory and Behavior (3 semester hours) This advanced seminar provides in-depth examination of key theories of organizational behavior and change, reviews classic and contemporary literature in the field, and introduces students to common approaches to organizational research. (3-0) Y
PA 7360 Advanced Fiscal and Budgetary Policy (3 semester hours) This advanced seminar reviews central theories of public budgeting and finance, reviews essential literature in the field, and provides a foundation for evaluating and analyzing organizational budgets. (3-0) Y
PA 7375 Nonprofit Organizations: Theory and Practice (3 semester hours) This class explores the leading theories of nonprofit organizations. Examines the unique elements of nonprofit organizations and the academic and practical challenges produced by these distinctive elements. Examines how theory is applied to the practice of management in nonprofit organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 7381 Special Topics in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) Topics vary semester to semester and are rotated typically among the major fields within the program. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) R
PA 7382 Seminar in Urban Policy (3 semester hours) This seminar surveys key urban policy challenges and opportunities faced by U.S. cities. The course will focus on critical analysis of a range of topics including the continuing viability of cities in the context of current economic and demographic dynamics, fiscal stress, governance, economic development, transportation, poverty and race/ethnicity, drugs, homelessness, federal urban policy, and survival strategies for declining cities. (3-0) R
PA 7383 Diversity in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This seminar is aimed at providing students with the knowledge and understanding required to meet the challenges presented by our incresingly diverse society. A significant portion of the course will focus on diversity in the workplace, with particular attention given to issues of discrimination, strategies for developing equitable public sector organizations, and the need for cultural competency among public administrators. (3-0) R
PA 7384 Readings in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) Individual directed reading and writing course in selected topics of public administration and public policy. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) R
PA 7v62 Policy Research Workshop in Public Affairs (3-9 semester hours) Students join a faculty member in a group research project. May be repeated for credit (12 hours maximum). MPA or doctoral students may not take more than 3 hours of their concentration requirement from policy research workshops and POEC 7376.) ([3-9]-0) R
PA 8302 Proseminar in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) All first year doctoral students are required to take this workshop in their first year in the program. The course introduces students to a range of skills needed for graduate school and features research presentations by faculty, visiting scholars, and advanced students. Departmental consent required. (3-0) Y
PA 8340 Dissertation Seminar in Public Affairs (3 semester hours) Students will explore current issues in public affairs of relevance to their field experiences. The course will focus on the identification of these current issues as sources and challenges for ongoing research in public affairs. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Permission of the Program Director. (3-0) S
PA 8v01 Independent Study (1-9 semester hours) Students will work with a faculty member to develop an individualized course of study relevant to public affairs. May be repeated for credit. ([1-9]-0) S
PA 8v97 Internship (1-9 semester hours) Provides faculty supervision for a student's internship. Internships must be related to the student's course work. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. ([1-9]-0) S
PA 8v99 Dissertation (1-9 semester hours) May be repeated. Total hours may not exceed 18 semester hours. Students will design and implement an improvement effort within an organization in their chosen field of specialization. The goal of this course is to provide students an applied experience dealing with the challenges of institutional and organizational change. Prerequisite: Permission of the Program Director. ([1-9]-0) Y