SOC 5v91 Independent Study in Applied Sociology (1-9 semester hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. May be repeated for credit. ([1-9]-0) R
SOC 5v92 Internship in Applied Sociology (1-9 semester hours) Provides faculty supervision for a student's internship. Internships must be related to the student's course work. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. May be repeated for credit. ([1-9]-0) R
SOC 6312 (POEC 6312) Social-Economic Theories (3 semester hours) A critical analysis of early and modern social and economic theories. Select classical works of Smith, Marx, and Weber are explored, as they pertain to Western capitalist development, along with more contemporary perspectives related to the accumulation and exchange value of human, social and cultural capital. Emphasis is placed on understanding how social relations and social institutions influence economic exchanges. (3-0) Y
SOC 6340 (POEC 6351) Domestic Social Policy (3 semester hours) Overview of governmental and non-governmental programs, policies, and institutions dealing with those who cannot function self-sufficiently within the American market economy, including low-income families, the elderly, the unemployed, and people with disabilities. Analyzes how social policy in the United States reflects the political economy and culture, as well as social and demographic trends. (3-0) Y
SOC 6341 (ECON 6371) Urban Economics (3 semester hours) Presents methods and models for understanding urban and development processes. Topics include analysis of urban growth, land use patterns, transportation and local public good delivery systems. Welfare consequences of various urban policy options are explored. (3-0) R
SOC 6344 Gender and Policy (3 semester hours) Explores issues of gender and public policy in the U.S. Topics include poverty, politics, and workplace and family issues. (3-0) R
SOC 6348 Immigration Policy (3 semester hours) This course examines immigration policy, focusing on U.S. immigration law, within the context of changing U.S. social institutions and society. The course gives special attention to immigration policy centered on immigrants arriving after 1965. (3-0) R
SOC 6350 Social Stratification (3 semester hours) This seminar will examine the major theories and lines of research on social stratification, defined as the hierarchical ranking of groups based on the unequal distribution of societal resources and positions. Focusing primarily on the U.S. class system, topics covered include: class reproduction and mobility, the educational system and policy, empirical definitions, the implications of race and gender for social class, and forms of legitimation. (3-0) Y
SOC 6355 Race, Ethnicity, and Community (3 semester hours) Considers cultural and social behavior in multiracial and multiethnic societies. Issues include the formation and maintenance of individual and group identity, patterns of socioeconomic achievement, intergroup conflict, and the causes and consequences of public policy. (3-0) R
SOC 6356 Health and Illness (3 semester hours) A review of medical sociology and related fields, including social epidemiology and the social demography of health and illness; health and illness behavior; health institutions and professions; economic factors and trends in health care; and health policies and programs. (3-0) R
SOC 6357 Health Policy (3 semester hours) The history and political economy of the U.S. health care system and a review of major governmental programs to expand access to appropriate services, control rising costs, ensure the quality of care, and promote health through prevention. Analysis of current and recent proposals for reform of health care policy. (3-0) Y
SOC 6370 Special Topics in Applied Sociology (3 semester hours) Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit. (9 hours maximum) (3-0) T
SOC 6380 (PA 6380) Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course examines issues related to the rise, scope, development and impact of nonprofit organizations. The course explores both the unique missions of nonprofit organizations and the management challenges posed by this expanding sector of the organizational environment. (3-0) T
SOC 6381 (PA 6382) Nonprofit Management (3 semester hours) This course examines issues, strategies, and techniques related to executive leadership and management in nonprofit organizations. (3-0) R
SOC 6v91 Evaluation Research (3-6 semester hours) Individual or group project in evaluation research performed for a public or private community organization under faculty supervision. Students will normally enroll in this course for two consecutive fall/spring semesters. The first semester of enrollment will culminate in the completion of a formal evaluation research proposal; the second will end with a final research report based on conclusions of the proposed research. Students also are expected to participate in a weekly seminar on topics in evaluation research featuring faculty and student presentations, guest speakers, and group discussion. Permission of the program coordinator required. May be repeated for a total of six semester credit hours. ([3-6]-0) Y
SOC 6v92 Research Workshop in Applied Sociology (3-6 semester hours) Students join a faculty member in a group research project. May be repeated for credit. (6 hours maximum) ([3-6]-0) T
SOC 6v98 Master's Thesis (3-6 semester hours) Provides faculty supervision of a student's master's thesis research. Completion of all, or concurrent enrollment in, major requirements. Prerequisite: Permission of Program Coordinator. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([3-6]-0) R