ATEC 2320 Exploration of Arts and Technology (3 semester credit hours) This course is geared towards incoming Arts and Technology (ATEC) students and will review and examine the major areas of concentration available within the major. Upon completion, students will better understand the various areas of study ATEC offers. (3-0) S
ATEC 2321 Writing and Research for Emerging Media (3 semester credit hours) This writing-intensive course focuses on writing for new and emergent media environments. While a number of technologies will be introduced and discussed in the course, the focus of the course will not be on the particular details of any one technology but rather on developing technological literacy; that is, the ability to understand and master new and emerging technologies as they appear. (0-3) Y
ATEC 2322 Theories of Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester credit hours) The course will examine the history and theory of digital communications with a critical view of their effects on society. The focus will be on the role of the Internet in contemporary life. Prerequisite or Corequisite: ATEC 2321. (0-3) Y
ATEC 2324 Survey of Digital Fabrication (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to provide students with a broad overview and introduction to digital fabrication processes. In this course a combination of lectures and hands on activities are used to expose students to the hardware and software tools associated with digital fabrication processes. (0-3) Y
ATEC 2325 Fundamentals of Game Design and Development (3 semester credit hours) This course is geared towards incoming Arts and Technology (ATEC) students and will review and examine the major areas of game design, development, production, and studies. The course discusses various aspects of all areas of gaming, including game systems and level design, art and animation, programming, sound design, game narrative, and academic writing. Upon completion, students will better understand the gaming options ATEC offers and how best to plan their remaining semesters. (3-0) Y
ATEC 2326 Computer Animation Processes (3 semester credit hours) This course is geared towards incoming Arts and Technology (ATEC) students and will examine the major areas of an animation production pipeline, including pre-production, production, and post-production. This course includes discussion of all areas of computer animation including digital modeling, texturing, rigging, animation and lighting. Upon completion, students will better understand the animation options ATEC offers and how best to plan their remaining semesters. (3-0) Y
ATEC 2382 Computer Imaging (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to digital image-making and manipulation using contemporary software applications. Graphic and photographic methods are presented and applied to art and design problems. Computer images are prepared for multiple delivery environments, including the Internet, games, animation, and print. (0-3) S
ATEC 2384 Basic Design Principles and Practices (3 semester credit hours) Foundational overview of design principles and practices common to all design professions, including general rules, laws, and guidelines of commercial design. Students will be introduced to the language of design, sources and resources of design practice, rapid prototyping, and design specializations and their integration with various relevant technical disciplines. (0-3) S
ATEC 2385 Sound Design (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to sound design where the main goal is to show and explain the role of sound in single or multiple aspects of the field, including multimedia productions, animation, video games, movies, and live performances. (0-3) S
ATEC 3310 Audio Technologies (3 semester credit hours) This class presents and explains the principles of audio and digital audio technologies. The course lays out the fundamentals of audio and computer equipment and technologies: microphones, loudspeakers, mixing boards, digital converters, digital audio formats, digital processors, audio compression, amplification, stereophonic, surround and multi-phonic diffusion. Prerequisite: ATEC 2385. (0-3) R
ATEC 3312 Audio Productions Lab (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the psychological implications as well as the artistic, cultural and social dimensions of the use of audio in films, games, and various other applications. Topics include recording, editing, processing and diffusing recorded material. Students will learn how to select a voice, an instrument, and/or a sound effect for auditory presentations and direct recording sessions. May be repeated for credit as projects vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: ATEC 2385. (0-3) R
ATEC 3315 Motion Graphics (3 semester credit hours) This course is an introduction to the concepts, tools and techniques used in graphic design to enhance a communicated message through animation. Students will work with image, text, audio, and movement to create dynamic visual communication pieces. Prerequisite: ATEC 2382. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3317 Modeling and Texturing I (3 semester credit hours) This course presents basic concepts and fundamentals of computer modeling and texture creation. The principles and techniques covered are universal and can be applied to animation and gaming, as well as other visualization areas. This course does not require any previous 3D animation experience and will assume all students are new to 3D modeling and texturing, and industry professional software. This course discusses and utilizes various aspects of all areas of computer animation including digital modeling, texturing, rigging, animation, and lighting. Prerequisite: ATEC 2326 or ATEC 2382. (0-3) S
ATEC 3318 Pre-Production Design (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on techniques used to develop ideas into viable animation concepts. Students will learn methods to break down ideas, write log lines and treatments, create concept art and produce storyboards and story reels. Prerequisite: ATEC 2326. (0-3) S
ATEC 3320 Digital Content Design and Usability (3 semester credit hours) This writing-intensive course blends theory and practice to increase the effectiveness of text prepared for digital media. Students will design, compose, and evaluate information to improve audiences' utility and satisfaction. Topics include the organization, logical development, structuring, and ethical presentation of information. This course will retain core notation for a transition period - see http://go.utdallas.edu/core-curriculum-transition. Please consult advisors for more detailed information. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) S
ATEC 3324 Computer Modeling for Digital Fabrication (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to provide students with a broad overview of computer modeling techniques associated with fabrication processes. In this course students will learn to apply 3D modeling software, rendering programs, image processing software and vector based graphics to digital fabrication processes. Emphasis will be placed on proper file preparation for output devices. Prerequisite: ATEC 2324 or ARTS 2382 or ATEC 3317 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3325 Introduction to Computer Mediated Communication (3 semester credit hours) This writing-intensive course will explore how we use technology to communicate, share knowledge, and develop social structures. This course will also introduce students to new media theoretical perspectives and scholarship as they critically analyze new media and cyberculture. This course will retain core notation for a transition period - see http://go.utdallas.edu/core-curriculum-transition. Please consult advisors for more detailed information. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) S
ATEC 3326 Emerging Media Production (3 semester credit hours) The course will introduce emerging practices in new media. It will blend theoretical studies and project-intensive practice in leading-edge applications of digital media, interactive media, and Internet communications. Prerequisites: ATEC 2321 and ATEC 2322. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3327 Lighting and Composition I (3 semester credit hours) This course presents basic concepts and fundamentals of digital lighting and basic composition. The principles and techniques covered are universal and can be applied to both animation and gaming, as well as other visualization areas. This course does not require any previous 3D animation experience and will assume all students are new to 3D lighting and industry professional software. Prerequisite: ATEC 2326 or ATEC 2382. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3328 Rigging I (3 semester credit hours) This course presents the concepts, tools, and techniques used in 3D animation for setting up clean and efficient 3D rigs that are easily able to be animated. Topics will include hierarchical structures, joints and bones, constraints, creating useful and predictable deformations, and setting up simple and intuitive control structures for use in animation. Introductory animation techniques will also be covered. Prerequisite: ATEC 2326 or ATEC 2382. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3330 Digital Video Production I (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to digital video production examining shooting, editing, and nonlinear post-production techniques. Students will work individually and in teams to produce short video projects. A variety of delivery environments may be explored, including web, mobile, and DVD. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3331 Sound Design for Linear and Non-linear Media (3 semester credit hours) This class uses soundtrack analyses and listening exercises, lectures and short projects addressing the various components of a sound track: voices, sound effects, ambient sound, and music and the various techniques implied in production and post-production (field recording, post-synchronization of dialogues, editing, foley, mastering, etc.). Prerequisite: ATEC 2385. (0-3) R
ATEC 3332 Additive Processes in Digital Fabrication Studio (3 semester credit hours) This studio course places an emphasis on 3D printing as a digital fabrication process. Students will learn to use 3D modeling software to create models for 3D printing. In this course both polygonal and nurbs modeling techniques will be used to create 3D printed forms. Students will also engage is a dialogue about the implications of additive manufacturing processes to contemporary artistic practice. Emphasis will be placed on proper file preparation for output devices. Prerequisite: ATEC 2324 or ATEC 2382 or ATEC 3317 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 3334 Laser Cutting in Digital Fabrication Studio (3 semester credit hours) This studio explores the relationship between laser cutting, engraving, and vector graphics in digital fabrication processes. Students will learn both two-dimensional and three-dimensional applications for this tool. In this course students will learn a variety of techniques for generating vectors based output and using them to create both two-dimensional and three-dimensional forms. Emphasis will be placed on applications development and proper file preparation for output devices. Prerequisite: ATEC 2324 or ATEC 3324 or ATEC 3317 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 3335 Scanned Data in Digital Fabrication Studio (3 semester credit hours) This studio explores the relationship between 3D scanned data and digital fabrication processes. Students will learn a variety of processes and methods for translating real world objects into digital form. In this course students will explore the implications of these technologies to contemporary artistic practice. Emphasis will be placed on an exploration of scale and the ways that scanned data can be manipulated artistically through digital fabrication. Prerequisites: ATEC 2324 or ATEC 3324 or ATEC 3317 or ATEC 3332 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 3336 Computer Animation I (3 semester credit hours) This course presents the concepts, tools and techniques used in 3D key frame animation. Topics will include squash and stretch, anticipation, overlapping motion and timing. Students will learn to animate using pre-existing rigs and set-ups. Prerequisite: ATEC 2326 or ATEC 2382. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3338 Digital Applications in Sculpture (3 semester credit hours) This studio explores the relationship between digital fabrication and traditional sculpture practice. Students will learn to use a variety of digital fabrication tools for traditional sculptural processes. In this course students will learn a variety of techniques for applying digital fabrication as a means and intermediate step in the process of sculpture. Emphasis will be placed on applications development and the creation of sculptural objects that extend the digital fabrication processes. Prerequisite: ATEC 2324 or ATEC 3324 or ATEC 3317 or ATEC 3332 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 3339 Projection Mapping Studio (3 semester credit hours) This studio explores the activation of form and space with moving images. Students will learn to animate static objects through projection mapping techniques. In this course students will learn workflows needed to create dynamic objects and immersive environments. Emphasis will be placed on applications and workflows that combine animation and sculptural expression. Prerequisite: ATEC 2324 or ATEC 2382 or ATEC 3317 or ATEC 3324 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 3351 Game Design I (3 semester credit hours) This course presents principles and techniques of interactive game design, including but not limited to game mechanics, player dynamics, social and multiplayer structures, statistics and game theory, and systems analysis. Students will work individually and in teams to create original interactive games as well as learn fundamentals of focus testing, usability testing, and critique. Course focuses on both analog and digital games. Prerequisite: ATEC 2320 or ATEC 2325 or ATEC 2326. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3352 User Experience Design for Games I (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on game concept and design processes prior to large-scale development, including idea generation, pre-production, game design documentation, and resource management. Course topics include but are not limited to player motivation, game elements, game dynamics, gaming history and culture, and experiential game-play design. Prerequisite: ATEC 2320 or ATEC 2325 or ATEC 2326. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3353 Game Studies (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to critical game studies, including analysis of digital and analog games as cultural artifacts, logical systems, technological objects, social media, and narrative experiences. This course presents the fundamentals of academic writing and research in game studies, including analysis, criticism, rhetoric, and ludology. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3354 Sound Design for Games and Interactive Media (3 semester credit hours) This class uses soundtrack analyses and listening exercises, lectures and short projects, and presents the key concepts of sound design for games and the constraints of interactivity. Introduction to non-linear sound design tools and presentation of game development environments. Prerequisite: ATEC 2385. (0-3) R
ATEC 3355 Scripting for Games I (3 semester credit hours) This course explores concepts and best practices of scripting and programming for digital game development. Students will utilize various scripting and programming languages to create basic mechanics, complex game systems, and scripted scenarios. Students will learn proper syntax and code structure as well as how to manipulate objects during run-time. Prerequisite: ATEC 2325. (0-3) T
ATEC 3356 Games and Narrative I (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the unique challenges of game narrative through practical techniques for narrative creation. Students in this course will analyze storytelling structures across media, game design principles, and the writing process to improve their understanding of narrative structures for games. Course covers both experimental and traditional interactive forms. Prerequisite: ATEC 2325. (3-0) T
ATEC 3361 Internet Studio I (3 semester credit hours) This course presents core web technologies and the process of website development. Topics explored include but are not limited to prototyping and design, development, information architecture and website launch. Prerequisite: ATEC 2382. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3363 Basic Interaction Design (3 semester credit hours) Study of human-machine interaction for a variety of applications. Students explore rapid prototyping, user interface (UI) and user experience (UX) design skills that can be applied to various domains such as web-based publishing, mobile app development, game development, and entertainment and artistic performances. New devices and interactions are explored. Prerequisite: ATEC 2382. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3364 Level Design I (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on methods and techniques in level design for interactive games, including paper design, white boxing, flow, goals and feedback, and event scripting. Prerequisite: ATEC 3351. (0-3) Y
ATEC 3365 Virtual Environments (3 semester credit hours) Explores advanced methods and techniques used in the design and creation of virtual environments. Topics will include aesthetics, architecture, scripting, and deployment. Prerequisite: ATEC 3317. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4310 Digital Audio Processing (3 semester credit hours) This course presents and develops the theoretical and technical principles of digital audio processing and sound synthesis as well as hands-on applications and experiments. The course will present and use: spectral processors such as single and multi-band filters, dynamic processors (expanders, compressors, noise gate), complex dynamic spectral processors (noise reduction, cross synthesis). Prerequisite: ATEC 3310. (0-3) R
ATEC 4312 Advanced Audio Productions Lab (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of ATEC 3312 Audio Productions Lab and explores the psychological implications as well as the artistic, cultural and social dimensions of the use of audio in films, games, and for various other applications. Students will record, edit, process, and diffuse recorded material as well as learn how to select a voice, an instrument, and a sound effect; they will write for auditory presentations and direct recording sessions. May be repeated for credit as projects vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: ATEC 3312. (0-3) R
ATEC 4322 Digital Sculpting (3 semester credit hours) This class takes an artistic based approach to the creation of 3D polygonal geometry. Students will focus on critical concepts including proportion, form, and translation of 2D designs to 3D figures. Various tools and techniques will be discussed allowing for the creation of custom workflows and methodologies. Prerequisites: ATEC 4348 and instructor consent required. (0-3) T
ATEC 4324 Digital Fabrication Studio I (3 semester credit hours) This studio course explores the relationship between digital fabrication and traditional artistic practice. Students use digital fabrication tools as a means of exploring their own creative ideas. In this course students will apply techniques and processes to create work that reflects their own creative vision. Emphasis will be placed on the conceptual underpinning of their ideas and the processes and techniques used to execute them. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisites: (ATEC 2324 or ATEC 3324) and instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 4325 Digital Fabrication Studio II (3 semester credit hours) This studio course explores the relationship between digital fabrication and traditional artistic practice. Students will focus on a specific aspect of digital fabrication and its relationship to their creative ideas. In this course students will use project-based approaches to apply techniques and processes they have learned to create work that reflects a strong clear artistic vision. Emphasis is on a critical dialogue about the conceptual basis of their ideas and the processes and techniques used to realize them. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisites: ATEC 4324 and instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 4326 Advanced Emerging Media Production (3 semester credit hours) The course explores production studio and field practices in the development of emerging forms of digital media and communications. Students will work individually and in teams to produce new media projects using a variety of different methods and technologies. Areas of investigation may include social media, mobile media, and trans-media projects. Prerequisite: ATEC 3326. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4328 Rigging II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of the ATEC 3328 Rigging I course and will continue with concepts, tools and techniques used in 3D animation for setting up clean and efficient 3D rigs that are easily and intuitively animated. Topics will include squash and stretch capabilities in rigs, basic MEL scripting, simple dynamics, facial rigs, and basic animation principles for complex rigs. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisite: ATEC 3328 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4329 Advanced Projects in Digital Fabrication Studio (3 semester credit hours) This studio course explores the relationship between digital fabrication and traditional artistic practice. Students will develop a proposal outlining a project that will be executed using digital fabrication techniques. The proposal will be executed over the course of the semester and documented in both written and visual form. Focus on a specific aspect of digital fabrication will provide the framework for a critical analysis of their ideas through individual and group critiques. Emphasis will be placed on the production of work and a discussion of its relationship to contemporary artistic practice. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisites: ATEC 4325 and instructor consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 4330 Digital Video Production II (3 semester credit hours) Students will explore cinematography, editing, and storytelling in video intended for networked distribution. Prerequisite: ATEC 3330. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4336 Computer Animation II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a further exploration of ideas and principles and concepts utilized in the ATEC 3336 Computer Animation I course. This class will focus on mechanics, movement of the human body and translation into believable performances through animation. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisite: ATEC 3336 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4339 Special Effects (3 semester credit hours) This course presents procedural methods, such as particle systems and dynamics, for the creation of visual effects used in films and animation. Students learn a variety of procedural methods and problem-solving skills needed to effectively produce and direct visual effects sequences. Prerequisite: ATEC 2326. (0-3) R
ATEC 4340 Project Management for Arts and Technology (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of managing Arts and Technology related projects. Topics covered include project definition, timelines, financial, staffing and marketing plans, as well as presentation strategies. Teamwork and communications strategies are also major topics in the course. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing. (3-0) S
ATEC 4341 Digital Marketing Design (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of ways web, social media, mobile technologies, games, and other media formats may be used to create and design communications programs. The course provides an overview of these media and how they may be used to create a marketing-based communications plan. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing. (3-0) R
ATEC 4345 Motion Capture Animation (3 semester credit hours) Group projects in which students learn the motion capture pipeline from setting up cameras and capturing data, to editing data and applying data to animated characters. Students will follow the 3D computer animation production process to complete short animations. End products are expected to be high quality animations appropriate for professional demo reels. Prerequisite: ATEC 3317 or ATEC 3327 or ATEC 3328. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4346 Story-Telling for New Media (3 semester credit hours) Theory, principles and practice of narratives created for distribution via digital media. Includes study of the creation of both linear and nonlinear digital content for Internet distribution. Prerequisite: ATEC 3320 or ATEC 3325 or COMM 3300. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4347 Advanced Design (3 semester credit hours) Explores advanced concepts and techniques in design including the use of computer-assisted creation of images. Prerequisite: ATEC 3361 or ATEC 3363. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4348 Modeling and Texturing II (3 semester credit hours) This advanced level course builds on the topics and workflows presented in ATEC 3317 Modeling and Texturing I. Advanced modeling and texturing concepts and fundamentals are discussed and examined. The principles and techniques covered are geared towards feature film and television work, but also apply to video game model creation. Areas covered include mesh, visualization, proper mesh flow on organic surfaces, digital sculpting and 3D painting applications. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisites: ATEC 3317 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4349 Lighting and Composition II (3 semester credit hours) This advanced level course builds on the topics and workflows presented in ATEC 3327 Lighting and Composition I. Advanced lighting and compositing fundamentals are discussed and examined. The principles and techniques covered are geared towards feature film and television work. Areas covered include Global Illumination, image based lighting (IBL), and node based compositing. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisites: ATEC 3327 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4350 Game Production Lab (3 semester credit hours) This course functions as a simulation of the game development industry. This course utilizes all areas of game design, development, and production, and is intended for students who have completed previous coursework in game development and design. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4351 Animation Studio I (3 semester credit hours) This advanced course mimics an animation studio environment. All major areas of production are represented and work together to create a fully realized 3D animated short(s). This course utilizes various aspects of all areas of computer animation including story development, layout, modeling, texturing, rigging, animation and lighting, rendering/compositing, sound design, and project planning and management. This is a two semester sequence course. Selected students must be able to register for both sessions (fall/spring). Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. May be repeated for credit as projects vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (ATEC 3317 or ATEC 3327 or ATEC 3328 or ATEC 3336) and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4352 Animation Studio II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of the ATEC 4351 Animation Studio I fall course. The course will mimic an actual animation studio environment where all major areas of production are represented and work together to create a fully realized 3D animated short(s). This course utilizes various aspects of all areas of computer animation including story development, layout, modeling, texturing, rigging, animation and lighting, rendering/compositing, sound design, and project planning and management. This is a two-semester sequence course. Selected students must be able to register for both sessions (fall/spring). May be repeated for credit as projects vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: ATEC 4351 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4353 Game Production Studio (3 semester credit hours) This advanced course functions as a simulation of the game development industry, focusing on iteration, balancing, and polishing of a continuing game project at a mid-to-late stage of development. Students in this course further refine their skills and expertise in an area of interest, including but not limited to programming, art, animation, sound design, game design, level design, project management, and project direction. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. May be repeated for credit as projects vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) T
ATEC 4356 Computer Animation III (3 semester credit hours) In this course students will establish an understanding of acting and body language as it pertains to animation. Students will continue to build a vocabulary of terms and concepts and develop their constructive, technical, and aesthetic ability to critique as it relates to animation as an art form. Students will continue to develop a practical understanding of the specific computers and software used in the course as it pertains to the animation workflow. Prerequisites: ATEC 4348 and instructor consent required. (0-3) T
ATEC 4357 Advanced Digital Arts (3 semester credit hours) This course continues the exploration of interaction design and content creation through design thinking. Students explore digital expression and its challenges, while further developing the nuances of narrative, and maximizing the medium to design a rich user experience. Prerequisite: ATEC 2382 or ATEC 3361. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4361 Internet Studio II (3 semester credit hours) Explores advanced methods and techniques related to web design and production. Students will explore and implement a range of new web technologies and how to best serve user needs with these new interactions. Prerequisite: ATEC 3361. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4365 Level Design II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of ATEC 3364 Level Design I and further explores methods and techniques in level design for interactive games, including paper design, white boxing, flow, goals and feedback, event scripting, as well as asset management. Prerequisite: ATEC 3364. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4367 Game Design II (3 semester credit hours) Continuing study in interactive game design, focusing on methods and techniques for rapid prototyping, game iteration, tuning, and balancing. The course focuses on identifying and utilizing both successes and failures to improve on successive iterations of a game mechanic, concept, or experience. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio. Prerequisites: ATEC 3351 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4368 User Experience Design for Games II (3 semester credit hours) Continuing study in digital game design with a focus on the human factor of games, including player feedback, data-driven decision making, interface design, and user experience design strategies. Students in the course will focus on developing viable games through rapid concept generation and iteration, analog and digital prototyping, data-driven production strategies, and pitch processes in commercial, research, or experimental areas. Registration for this course will be based on the faculty's review of the student's portfolio Prerequisite: ATEC 3352 and instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4370 Topics in Arts and Technology (3 semester credit hours) Study of fundamental principles and basic techniques of arts and technology. Sections may be devoted exclusively to a single aspect of the arts and technology or to a multiplicity of subjects related to the field. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Upper-division standing or department consent required. (0-3) R
ATEC 4371 Topics in Animation (3 semester credit hours) Course offers a further exploration of ideas and principles utilized in the animation process. Sections may be devoted to a single aspect of animation or to a variety of subjections in the field. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4373 Topics in Game Development (3 semester credit hours) Course offers a further exploration of principles and techniques of computer game design, development, and theory. Sections may be devoted to a single aspect of game development or to a variety of subjects in the field. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4374 Topics in Digital Design (3 semester credit hours) Fundamental digital design methods that lay a foundation for more specific design-oriented areas of interest. Topics may include research and planning, drawing and composition, color/graphics and presentation, prototyping and testing. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4375 Topics in Sound Design (3 semester credit hours) This class will focus on the role of sound in one or several of the various domains of multimedia production, including, but not limited to animation, video games, movies, live performance, and interactive environments. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (0-3) Y
ATEC 4380 Capstone Project (3 semester credit hours) Culminating independent study under a faculty member's direction in Arts and Technology. Students will engage in the creation of an advanced creative and/or research project exploring the interaction of the arts with digital technology. Restricted to students majoring in Arts and Technology who are within one semester of graduation. Signature of instructor on proposed project outline required. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
ATEC 4399 Senior Honors in Arts and Technology (3 semester credit hours) Intended for students conducting independent research for an honors thesis or project. Students will engage in the creation of an advanced creative and/or research project and paper exploring the interaction of arts and technology. Restricted to students majoring in Arts and Technology who are within one semester of graduation and meet honors requirements. Signature of instructor and second reader on proposed project outline required. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
ATEC 4V71 Independent Study in Arts and Technology (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and completion of all lower-division requirements in ATEC and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R