DRAM 1310 (DRAM 1310) Understanding Theater (3 semester credit hours) Lectures, discussions, and performances designed to explore artistic, philosophical, social, historical, and psychological dimensions of the theatrical experience. Topics may include analysis of scripts, the nature of the theater compared to the other performing arts, and the nature of popular entertainments. (3-0) Y
DRAM 1351 (DRAM 1351) Acting 1 (3 semester credit hours) The purpose of this course is to provide the student with a working knowledge of the fundamentals of the actor's craft. This will include basic acting theory and technique, script analysis, exercises to develop imagination, concentration, sensory awareness, self-knowledge, trust and freedom. This class is designed to give the beginning acting student the ability to act and work individually and collaboratively on lay scripts in a workshop environment. (0-3) T
DRAM 1352 (DRAM 1352) Acting 2 (3 semester credit hours) This course will continue the development of physical, emotional, and imaginative awareness as it applies to acting. The methods of creating character, text analysis, and performance techniques will be emphasized. Students will also be introduced to different styles of acting and improvisation. Material may focus on classic or contemporary drama or original creations and will include scene and monologue study and presentation. Prerequisite: DRAM 1351 or instructor consent required. (0-3) T
DRAM 2311 Topics in Theater (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to specialized topics in theater. May include historical or cultural elements of theater, a genre or author, or digital aspects of theater. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) R
DRAM 2364 Musical Theater Workshop (3 semester credit hours) Training in singing, dancing, and acting for the musical stage. Includes preparation of performance from the works of twentieth and twenty-first century composers. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) R
DRAM 2371 Technical Theater 1 (3 semester credit hours) Designed to provide an introductory overview of all aspects of technical theater, encompassing lighting, sound, set construction, props, costume procedures, and elementary construction. Practical work will reference theater history and the theoretical foundations of technical theater. Students will be required to attend weekly lectures and fulfill production lab hours. (0-3) Y
DRAM 2372 Improvisation (3 semester credit hours) Students will learn the fundamentals of spontaneous creativity through the use of critical listening and response. Exercises and games are used to help students learn to express themselves both physically and vocally. (0-3) R
DRAM 2373 Languages of the Body (3 semester credit hours) Explores the fundamental principles and techniques of movement and/or voice systems and their relationship to diverse forms of theater, performance, media, and alternative staging. Presented in a participatory workshop setting. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: DRAM 1310 or equivalent. (0-3) R
DRAM 2V71 Independent Study in Drama (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
DRAM 3310 Theater/Performance Ensemble (3 semester credit hours) This course is for people who are acting, producing or managing a production. Time will be reserved for rehearsals, script analysis, concept design and general studies. Additional rehearsals, outside of the assigned class time, will be necessary to produce the show. This course provides practical use of theatrical studies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
DRAM 3323 Performance in Historical Context (3 semester credit hours) Studies in theater and performance art. The course may consider eras such as Classical, Medieval, Renaissance, Realist, Contemporary, or Experimental Avant-Garde in the Western and Non-Western traditions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: DRAM 1310 or equivalent. (3-0) T
DRAM 3324 Technical Theater 2 (3 semester credit hours) Designed to teach the advanced elements of theatrical skills, including lighting, sound, set, props, and costumes. Students will learn the foundations of the design process and how they apply to the completion of the production on stage. Practical work will apply with students required to attend weekly lectures and production lab hours. Prerequisite: DRAM 2371 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
DRAM 3325 Directing (3 semester credit hours) This course presents the principles and working methods of directing theater performance and inter-media expressions. Emphasis will be on the development of skills required to bring a text or idea to presentation. Areas of focus will include imagination and conception, image and metaphor, analysis, planning, development-rehearsal process, and production. Will require out of class lab hours. Prerequisite: DRAM 1351 or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
DRAM 3342 Advanced Topics in Theater (3 semester credit hours) Topics may vary from semester to semester. They include specialized courses in technical theater, production, performance and administration and are offered at the discretion of the instructor. Past courses include Voice Over and Stage Management. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: DRAM 1310 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
DRAM 3351 Light Design (3 semester credit hours) Students will learn the fundamentals of designing lighting for various events. Concerts, dance and theatrical productions will be covered. Proper procedures for creating a fully functional lighting design from concept and justification to plotting and implementation, color theory, texture, proper instrumentation, drafting, and justification are a few of the skills that students will learn through the course of the semester. Prerequisite: (DRAM 1310 and DRAM 3324) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
DRAM 3356 Acting 3 (3 semester credit hours) Material may focus on classic or contemporary drama or on original creations. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
DRAM 3372 Advanced Improvisation (3 semester credit hours) This course builds on students' basic improvisation skills to create performances with nuance and depth. Students will explore comedic and dramatic improvisation that will lead to a better understanding of sketch structure and character enrichment. Prerequisite: DRAM 2372 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
DRAM 4301 Acting for Film and Video (3 semester credit hours) The study and practice of principles of acting for film and video, including freeing the voice, movement and imagination, improvisation, script analysis, building a character, creating a role, monologues, scene study, and creating original work. (0-3) Y
DRAM 4V71 Independent Study in Drama (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R