RMIS 3370 Principles of Risk Management and Insurance (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to fundamental risk management and insurance principles as essential components of global business operations and personal risk management. Topics include risk identification, risk analysis, global risk exposures, insurance company operations, legal principles, loss prevention and safety concepts, and the social and economic relevance of risk management and insurance. Prerequisite: (MATH 2333 or OPRE 3333). Corequisite: (STAT 3360 or OPRE 3360). (Same as FIN 3370) (3-0) S
RMIS 4331 Business Liability Risk Management and Insurance (3 semester credit hours) Business liability exposures to risk and losses arising from negligence and/or other legal doctrines are presented, with emphasis on risk management and insurance as an essential component of a business' enterprise risk management program. Risk assessment, loss prevention, and treatment of risk are presented in the areas of general liability, business auto, worker's compensation, cyber risk, and management and professional liability. Prerequisite: FIN 3330 or RMIS 3370. (3-0) Y
RMIS 4332 Commercial Property Risk Management and Insurance (3 semester credit hours) Commercial property losses arising from natural and man-made exposures are presented, with emphasis on risk management and insurance as an essential component of a business' enterprise risk management program. Risk assessment, loss prevention, and treatment of risk are presented in the areas of commercial property, loss of business income, inland marine, cyber risk, equipment breakdown, and flood and earthquake. Prerequisite: FIN 3330 or RMIS 3370. (3-0) Y
RMIS 4333 Business Risk Management (3 semester credit hours) Study of the risks and exposures to loss affecting businesses and non-profit entities: including pure, financial, operational, and strategic risk. Data collection, analysis, and evaluation methods are presented. Risk management program objectives, goals, and management are presented along with the tools for identification, treatment, and financing of risk. Prerequisite: FIN 3320 and RMIS 3370. (3-0) Y
RMIS 4334 Insurance Law and Contracts (3 semester credit hours) A basic course in the fundamentals of insurance law. Topics covered include: defining insurance; risk and the nature of the insurance relationship; insurable interests; indemnity; fortuity; subrogation; coordination of benefits; interpretation of policies; rights at variance with policy provisions; contract formation; warranties, misrepresentation and concealment; conditions; agents and brokers; insurance regulation; and introduction to insurance coverage. Prerequisite: FIN 3330 or RMIS 3370. (3-0) Y