UNIV 1010 Freshman Seminar (0 semester credit hours) This course is a graduation requirement for all first time in college freshman. Freshmen are required to register for the course in order to complete the initial core curriculum assessment. Credit/No Credit only. Corequisite: ARHM 1100 or ATEM 1100 or BA 1100 or BIS 1100 or CGS 1100 or CLDP 1100 or ECS 1100 or EPPS 1110 or NATS 1101 or NSC 1100 or PSY 1100 or SPAU 1100 or UNIV 1100. (0-0) S
UNIV 1100 Freshman Seminar - Undeclared (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed to introduce students to the university and career/major exploration. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-1) Y
UNIV 2010 Seminar for Pre-Law Professionals (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to help students discover and develop the skills necessary to succeed in the law school application process and law school. Students will explore various topics in a legal education and professional development context including issues of appropriate personal attributes and expectations, interpersonal communication, and self-appraisal. May not be repeated. Prerequisites: Sophomore standing and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2012 Seminar: Evaluating Competencies for Entry to Health Professions Schools (0 semester credit hours) This seminar is designed to help students explore professional competencies desired in healthcare fields, with particular emphasis on medicine, dentistry, podiatry and other professions requiring advanced degrees. Students will engage in learning centered around behavioral and ethical concepts, including integrity and social responsibility, as these relate to the delivery of healthcare and students pre-professional preparation in the context of the UT Dallas Health Professions Evaluation Process and application to health professions schools. May not be repeated. Prerequisite: Junior standing. (2-0) Y
UNIV 2014 Portfolio Seminar for UT PACT Students (0 semester credit hours) The purpose of this seminar, required of all students enrolled in the UT PACT program, is for students to work on their professional development portfolios. Students will meet regularly with the program assessment director to discuss elements to be added to their portfolios and other issues related to their completion of the UT PACT requirements. Enrollment is limited to UT PACT students. Credit/No Credit only. UT PACT advisor consent required. (1-0) S
UNIV 2020 Core Curriculum Assessment (0 semester credit hours) All students who have completed the core curriculum at UT Dallas must register for this course as the final assessment for the core curriculum. Credit/No Credit only. (0-0) S
UNIV 2V96 Special Topics I (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) Y
UNIV 3010 Transfer Transitions (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to introduce incoming students transferring from another college or university to the academic and cultural environment of UT Dallas. The course encompasses topics such as: student life at UT Dallas, leadership opportunities, ways to get involved, academic and wellness resources on campus, and other pertinent information to help maximize your time at the university. The purpose of the course is to help you develop strategies and tactics that will lead to a successful experience at UT Dallas. Credit/No Credit Only. (1-0) S
UNIV 3V98 UT PACT Capstone Seminar (1-6 semester credit hours) For UT PACT (UT Partnership in Advancing Clinical Transition) students conducting culminating independent clinical, research, or service projects in their third year at UT Dallas. Enrollment is limited to students who have completed at least two years of the UT Pact Program. Credit/No Credit only. UT PACT advisor consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y
UNIV 4074 Student Leadership (0 semester credit hours) This is the required course for all students selected to participate in University recognized leadership programs, including but not limited to First Year Leaders, and Student Tour Ambassadors for Recruitment. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated up to three times. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 4174 Theory and Practice of Group Motivation and Leadership (1 semester credit hour) An elective course designed to provide students with a basic understanding of the theoretical knowledge and skills needed to lead and motivate groups engaged in personal or professional transitions. Includes supervised and paraprofessional experience. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: UNIV 4074 and instructor consent required. (1-0) Y
UNIV 4274 Advanced Group Leadership (2 semester credit hours) An elective course designed to provide students with an advanced understanding of the theoretical knowledge and skills needed to lead and motivate groups engaged in personal or professional transitions. Includes supervised and paraprofessional experience. Prerequisites: UNIV 4074 and UNIV 4174 and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
UNIV 4V96 Special Topics II (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
UNIV 4V97 Independent Study (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
UNIV 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Students undertake a new learning experience at a faculty-supervised work situation in business, government, or social service agency, arts institution, or other setting appropriate to the student's concentration. Sites may be local, out of state, or abroad. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals in a specific field. Experience gained may also serve as a work credential after graduation. Course requirements include writing a journal and research paper connecting theory to practice. This course is open to all majors at UT Dallas. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S