AMS 2300 American Popular Culture (3 semester credit hours) Examines American culture historically through some of its most popular cultural forms: fiction, film, magazines, advertising, music, sports, television and media. Considers the economics of cultural production, ways of critically reading popular texts, and how consumers make use of popular culture. Pays particular attention to the ways gender, race, and class influence how popular texts are created and consumed. (3-0) Y
AMS 2311 Social Change and Photography in America (3 semester credit hours) This course exposes students to a broad range of images from the tradition of American documentary photography in order to help them better understand the role that such images play in social change. After briefly familiarizing ourselves with the history of photography and photographic methods, we will trace the history of documentary photography in the United States from the late nineteenth century to the present. (Same as GST 2311) (3-0) R
AMS 2312 Social and Political Legacies of the 1960s (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the social and political movements of the 1960s and links those activities to more recent debates regarding various forms of political thought and action in American society. We will follow the history of the sixties in order to enhance our understanding of the people, events, and places that not only defined this decade but which have also impacted American society in subsequent decades. Course readings and lectures will be supplemented by a wide range of media including songs, commercials, print advertisements, movies, and documentary footage. (Same as GST 2312) (3-0) R
AMS 2341 American Studies for the Twenty-First Century (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to American cultural studies, its theories, and methodologies. Topics may include: religion and politics; transnationalism; gender and sexuality; class, labor and consumption; race and ethnicity. The course develops students' abilities to interpret cultural texts, to make and evaluate historical and literary arguments, and to situate contemporary cultural debates in larger historical and theoretical frames. (3-0) Y
AMS 2390 Topics in American Studies (3 semester credit hours) The course is designed mainly for sophomores. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
AMS 3302 American Cultures (3 semester credit hours) Study of contemporary American cultures. The course examines institutions, culture regions, and the interaction between mainstream American culture and various subcultures. (3-0) Y
AMS 3313 Public Relations (3 semester credit hours) Study of the techniques used by U.S. corporations, nonprofit organizations, and individuals to create and foster the public images they desire. (3-0) Y
AMS 3314 Public Communication (3 semester credit hours) Study of communication theory in relation to ways in which the U.S. government and other institutions present themselves. (3-0) Y
AMS 3316 Interpersonal Communication (3 semester credit hours) Study of theory and practice of interpersonal communication. The focus will be on learning and applying various concepts and skills needed to improve the quality and effectiveness of communication in both personal and professional aspects of life. (3-0) S
AMS 3321 American Ethnic Experience: Immigrants Before 1945 (3 semester credit hours) Study of the experiences, conditions, and contributions of the old immigrants who came to America before 1945. The course examines the making of mainstream American culture, persistence of ethnic subcultures, and changes in ethnic relations. (3-0) R
AMS 3322 American Ethnic Experience: Immigrants After 1945 (3 semester credit hours) Study of the experiences, conditions, and contributions of the new immigrants who have arrived in America since 1945. Topics include the changes in immigration policies, new patterns of ethnic relations, and impact of new immigrants on American society. (3-0) T
AMS 3326 The United States in the Twenty-First Century (3 semester credit hours) An exploration of twenty-first century conditions and realities of the U.S., including economic crisis and sociocultural changes. The course also examines the roles of the U.S. in the world community. (3-0) T
AMS 3350 Crisis Communication (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the concepts, terms, strategies, and foundations of communication prior to, during and after a crisis. This course looks beyond the basic elements of communication into how a crisis changes elements of communication. (3-0) Y
AMS 3374 Entrepreneurs in America (3 semester credit hours) An interdisciplinary introduction to various kinds of entrepreneurial ventures. The basic purpose of the course is to discover and understand the factors that govern the success (or failure) of entrepreneurial ventures and the role of the entrepreneur in a capitalist economy. (3-0) R
AMS 4300 Oral and Written Communication for the Classroom (3 semester credit hours) This course provides future teachers with the ability to understand, use, and teach standard American English grammar rules and to employ effective speaking techniques as well as write efficacious sentences, paragraphs, and essays and make effective oral presentations. By becoming proficient in these areas, future teachers will know how to score student essays and deliver viable classroom instruction. (3-0) S
AMS 4304 Communication in America (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the basic verbal and non-verbal elements affecting communication in American society. Perspectives to be addressed include communication across cultures, gender differences in communication, interpersonal communication styles, and communication in peer groups, families, and work contexts. In addition, the effects of technology on communication and its impact on individuals and society will be explored. (3-0) T
AMS 4305 World History for Teachers (3 semester credit hours) This course is a comprehensive thematic survey of world history that parallels the standards in the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS) as required for teachers in grades 8 through 12. (3-0) S
AMS 4326 Documentary Photography: History, Politics, and Impacts (3 semester credit hours) This course examines documentary photography, situating it within relevant historical contexts and with particular attention to political and social dimensions, both in the United States and internationally. More specifically, it addresses how photography helps create awareness about social issues and political situations, altering perceptions of people, situations, and events, and promoting various actions. (3-0) R
AMS 4360 Rebels and Reformers: Women and Alcohol in America (3 semester credit hours) This course examines women's historical role as crusaders against alcohol and identifies how the role of reformer was gendered. Identifies the genesis of the disease concept of alcoholism and how it was applied to men and women in different ways. This course also examines gendered ideas about male and female drinking and how they are represented in popular culture, literature, and film. (Same as GST 4360) (3-0) Y
AMS 4379 Special Topics in American Studies (3 semester credit hours) The course is designed mainly for seniors. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
AMS 4381 Senior Honors in American Studies (3 semester credit hours) Required for graduation magna cum laude or summa cum laude. Prerequisite: Completion of at least 39 and no more than 45 hours of work towards a degree in American Studies and instructor consent required. (3-0) R
AMS 4385 Professional Communications in Business (3 semester credit hours) Combines theory and practice in improving both the written and spoken word in business. Students learn to evaluate professional and technical audiences and how to communicate more effectively to those audiences. Principles of composition, organization, tone, format, and punctuation are reviewed. Exercises in effective speaking and group presentations are also conducted. (3-0) Y
AMS 4V80 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R