GISC 2302 Geodesy and Geospatial Analysis (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the basic concepts of geodetic datums (horizontal and vertical), coordinate systems, and map projections. Applications in the Earth Sciences will be discussed to reinforce concepts. (3-0) Y
GISC 2305 Introduction to Spatial Thinking (3 semester credit hours) Explores the role that spatial thinking plays across a variety of subject areas, including the sciences, social and policy sciences, engineering, and business. Various aspects of spatial patterns, trends, and themes and methodologies for bringing spatial considerations into these areas are discussed. Geotechnologies, such as global positioning systems (GPS), remote sensing, and geographic information systems (GIS) will be employed to support spatial thinking and its applications. Emphasis will be placed on learning spatial concepts instead of specific software. The course is of value not only to future specialists in GIS, but to all students with interest in applying spatial thinking techniques to their specific fields. (Same as GEOS 2305) (3-0) Y
GISC 3304 Introduction to Geospatial Information Sciences (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the primary Geospatial Information Sciences (GIS) methods for manipulating, querying, analyzing, and visualizing spatial-based data. Topics include spatial data models, data acquisition and editing, cartography, and spatial analysis. This course is designed to provide a foundation for all other upper level GISC courses. (Same as GEOG 3304 and GEOS 3304) (3-0) Y
GISC 4310 Environmental and Health Policy in East Asia (3 semester credit hours) Rapid development in East Asia has brought economic wealth to individuals in this region but has also created serious environmental and health problems such as pollution, resource depletion, pandemics, climate change, and so on. This course explores the environmental and human health challenges in East Asia as well as how governments and other actors are addressing them through various approaches to "sustainable development." East Asia is defined for this course as the region encompassing China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and some countries in Southeast Asia, but we will also focus on the role of the United States as it has been extensively involved in this region, when necessary. To help build the fundamental background of students' understanding of current environmental and health issues in East Asia, the course begins with an overview of historical, geographic, socioeconomic, political, and cultural issues in East Asia, and then examines ongoing policy actions to address various environmental and health problems in the region. Students are expected to take an active role in reviewing and discussing the material and, more importantly, in thinking critically about the interrelations of environment and human health in East Asia. (Same as IPEC 4310) (3-0) T
GISC 4317 GeoComputation (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to fundamental computational skills and their implementation in GIS software development. Topics covered include geoprocessing functions, geospatial modeling, visual programming, scripting and application development. Students are expected to design and implement a project. Prerequisite: GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304. (3-0) Y
GISC 4325 Introduction to Remote Sensing (3 semester credit hours) Topics include principles of remote sensing and sensors, image visualization and statistics, radiometric and geometric correction, enhancement, classification, change detection, and innovative image processing approaches. (Same as GEOS 4325) (3-0) Y
GISC 4326 Cartography and GeoVisualization (3 semester credit hours) Examines the theoretical concepts and practical applications of cartographic and geographic visualization. Topics covered include concepts for geographic data representation, symbolization and map design, and methods for geographic visualization and display. 3D visualization, cartographic animation, and web-based mapping may also be included. Lab sessions explore the implementation of cartographic and geographic visualization with industry standard GIS software. Prerequisite: GEOS 2305 or GISC 2305 or GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304. (3-0) Y
GISC 4382 Applied Geographic Information Systems (3 semester credit hours) Further develops hands-on skills, such as spatial analysis, pattern analysis and statistical analysis of GIS data, with industry-standard GIS software for application in a wide variety of areas including urban, transportation, marketing and location analysis, environmental management, geologic and geophysical analysis, and the economic, political and policy sciences. Prerequisites: (GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304) and (EPPS 2302 or EPPS 2303) or equivalent with instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
GISC 4384 Health and Environmental GIS: A Global Perspective (3 semester credit hours) This course covers emerging issues in global health and environmental policy, with special emphasis on applications of Geographic Information System (GIS) and spatial analytic tools in identifying and responding to physical and social environmental risk factors that impact the health and wellbeing of peoples throughout the world. Ample hands-on laboratory experiences will be provided on how to utilize various geospatial methods such as spatial analysis, modeling, simulation and mapping with real-world data using state-of-the-art commercial and open source software. Prerequisite: GEOS 2305 or GISC 2305 or GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304. (Same as IPEC 4384) (3-0) T
GISC 4385 Advanced Applications in GIS (3 semester credit hours) This course covers advanced applications in contemporary geographic information system and sciences. The course discusses a wide range of GIS principles, concepts, functions and algorithms and how they can be applied to a speicific application area such as real estate, urban planning, crime, and transportation. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: GEOS 2305 or GISC 2305 or GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304. (3-0) Y
GISC 4V96 Special Topics in Geospatial Information Science (1-3 semester credit hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) R
GISC 4V97 Independent Study in Geospatial Information Science (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
GISC 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
GISC 4V99 Senior Honors in Geospatial Information Science (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors thesis or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S