HMGT 3100 Professional Development (1 semester credit hour) This course is required for all students majoring in Healthcare Management in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. This course is designed to enhance the student's experience in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. Students will work on networking skills, verbal and written communication skills, business etiquette training, and learn how to increase their human capital. Students will also work on projects geared towards career management and overall professional development as a business major. The goal of this class is to make the student a more marketable and valuable professional to the global economy. Students will learn and attend class using hybrid system of online training and on campus training. Credit cannot be received for more than one of the following: ACCT 3100, BA 3100, BCOM 3100, FIN 3100, HMGT 3100, IMS 3100, MIS 3100, MKT 3100 or OPRE 3100. (1-0) S
HMGT 3310 Health Care Regulatory Environment (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the regulatory and compliance environment impacting health care management, including federal, state, and local agencies. Students will explore topics pertinent to the regulatory environment and familiarize themselves with the agencies that monitor, evaluate, assess and credential health care organizations. Students will explore the extensive oversight and monitoring at all levels in the delivery of health care including: Food and Drug Administration, Center for Disease Control, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Environment Protection Agency, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Office of Inspector General, the Joint Commission, State Health Agencies, and County Public Health Agencies. Prerequisite: HMGT 4301. (3-0) Y
HMGT 3311 Healthcare Accounting (3 semester credit hours) This course will help students develop the critical ability to make financial decisions that reduce risk and create economic value. Using hospital and physician group practice data, participants learn how to: read and interpret healthcare financial statements, using discounted cash flows to make investment decisions that create economic value, financially evaluate a proposed healthcare acquisition, partnership or joint venture, determine how much a medical practice or healthcare organization is really worth, and review internal controls. Prerequisite: ACCT 2301. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4090 Healthcare Management Internship (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. Department consent required. (0-0) S
HMGT 4301 Introduction to Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) An overview of the U.S. healthcare system - topics include the issues of cost, quality, and access. Financing of the system and healthcare policy will be covered and the role of hospitals, physicians, and managed care organizations will be examined. Prerequisite: MATH 1325 or MATH 2413 or MATH 2417. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4321 Introduction to Healthcare Information Systems (3 semester credit hours) Examines key processes in healthcare organizations and how information systems support the delivery of healthcare services. The course also deals with issues surrounding the selection, implementation, and use of electronic medical records (EMR) and provides opportunities to work hands-on with EMR software. Prerequisites: HMGT 4301 and MIS 3300. (Same as MIS 4320) (3-0) Y
HMGT 4331 Marketing in Healthcare Organizations (3 semester credit hours) An overview of marketing and business planning principles oriented to settings such as hospitals and outpatient clinics. Traditional marketing models are related to the healthcare industry as students are familiarized with concepts critical to understanding business development for healthcare professionals, including: industry data, market analysis, relevant stakeholders and patient flow through the continuum of care. Prerequisites: HMGT 4301 and MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4341 Human Resources Management in Healthcare Organizations (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the employee life cycle in healthcare organizations, including: recruitment, candidate selection, credentialing, record retention, performance management, staff retention, disciplinary action and termination. Students will explore topics pertinent to the management and development of staff and will be familiarized with federal legislation commonly encountered in human resources, including: NLRA, OSHA, EEOA, ERISA and FLSA. Prerequisites: HMGT 4301 and OBHR 3310. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4351 Management, Design and Optimization of Healthcare Processes (3 semester credit hours) An interactive, experiential course in which students will utilize hands-on, practice-oriented opportunities to learn how to design, manage and optimize healthcare processes. Advanced analytical techniques for healthcare process optimization will also be discussed. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4V90 Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. At the end of the semester students must prepare an oral presentation, reflecting on the knowledge gained in the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S