IMS 3100 Professional Development (1 semester credit hour) This course is required for all students majoring in Global Business in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. This course is designed to enhance the student's experience in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. Students will work on networking skills, verbal and written communication skills, business etiquette training, and learn how to increase their human capital. Students will also work on projects geared towards career management and overall professional development as a business major. The goal of this class is to make the student a more marketable and valuable professional to the global economy. Students will learn and attend class using hybrid system of online training and on campus training. Credit cannot be received for more than one of the following: ACCT 3100, BA 3100, BCOM 3100, FIN 3100, HMGT 3100, IMS 3100, MIS 3100, MKT 3100 or OPRE 3100. (1-0) S
IMS 3310 International Business (3 semester credit hours) Examination of worldwide patterns of trade and investment. Overview of financial, managerial, and marketing problems confronted by multinational firms. Prerequisites: ECON 2301 and (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419). (3-0) S
IMS 3V91 Regional Management Area Studies: Latin America (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in Latin America. Students will learn about the business environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have an economic impact in the area. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: IMS 3310 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 3V92 Regional Management Area Studies: Western Europe (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in Europe. Students will learn about the business environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have an economic impact in the area. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: IMS 3310 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 3V93 Regional Management Area Studies: Asia (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in Asia. Students will learn about the business environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have an economic impact in the area. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: IMS 3310 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 3V94 Regional Management Area Studies: Africa (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in Africa. Students will learn about the business environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have an economic impact in the area. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: IMS 3310 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 3V95 Regional Management Area Studies: North America (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in North America. Students will learn about the business environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have an economic impact in the area. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: IMS 3310 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 3V96 Regional Management Area Studies: Eastern Europe (1-3 semester credit hours) This course familiarizes students with the historical, social, economic, and political background of nations in Eastern Europe. Students will learn about the business environment of the area and participate in seminars on firms that operate in and have an economic impact in the area. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: IMS 3310 and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 4090 Management Internship (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. Department consent required. (0-0) S
IMS 4310 Export Market Development (3 semester credit hours) Survey of factors affecting export markets. Examination of free trade versus strategic trade; trade protectionism; role and influence of the WTO; impact of regional trade agreements (e.g. NAFTA, EU); supply chain management, logistics and distribution challenges; and trade finance. Prerequisites: IMS 3310 and BLAW 4301. (3-0) Y
IMS 4320 International Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Analysis of environment of international marketing. Survey of techniques of international marketing management. Prerequisites: IMS 3310 and MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
IMS 4325 International Advertising and Promotion (3 semester credit hours) This course will look at the major trends and strategies associated with global promotions and advertising. In today's world, the major global brands keep growing larger in value and influence and the smaller brands just entering global markets are growing in numbers. Students will analyze these brands and businesses as they make the needed adjustments or adaptations in advertising and promotions to be culturally relevant and sensitive. Prerequisites: IMS 3310 and MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
IMS 4330 Global Human Resource Management (3 semester credit hours) The course examines cultural complexity in the uncontrollable business environments in foreign markets. The course covers management of problems derived from cultural differences, the lack of adaptability of expatriates and their families in host countries, and recruitment, training and motivation for international assignments. Prerequisites: OBHR 3310 and IMS 3310. (3-0) Y
IMS 4332 International Negotiation (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the theories, processes and practical techniques of negotiations in situations where partners to the negotiation come from different national cultures, political, legal and economic systems. Topics include the basics of international negotiations, cultural influences on negotiations, culture-specific strategies and tactics used in the negotiation process, and qualities that an international negotiator must possess. Practical skills are developed through the use of simulations and exercises. Prerequisites: OBHR 4352 and IMS 4330. (3-0) Y
IMS 4334 International Leadership (3 semester credit hours) Addresses the challenge of leading organizations in a dynamic global environment. Overall goal is to not only question one's assumptions about leadership, but also enhance skills and acquire new content knowledge. Topics include visionary and transformational leadership; empowerment; leveraging and combining resources; designing organizations; and ethics. Prerequisites: OBHR 4350 and IMS 4330. (3-0) Y
IMS 4373 Global Strategy (3 semester credit hours) Study of the challenges that multinational firms face, including managing across national borders, managing international strategic alliances, managing headquarters-subsidiary relationships, and developing global capabilities. Prerequisites: (IMS 3310 and IMS 4320 and FIN 3380 and BLAW 4301). (3-0) Y
IMS 4V81 Individual Study in International Management (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
IMS 4V90 Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. At the end of the semester students must prepare an oral presentation, reflecting on the knowledge gained in the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
IMS 4V94 Seminar Series in International Management (3 semester credit hours) Discussion of selected topics and theories in organizational behavior, strategy and international management. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) R