IPEC 3349 World Resources and Development (3 semester credit hours) Analysis of resource mobilization, technological changes and economic development from a multidisciplinary perspective. Primary focus on the problems of the less-developed countries. Topics include technology transfer, industrialization strategy, education policy, population growth, nutrition and foreign aid. (3-0) R
IPEC 4301 Political Economy of Industrialized Countries (3 semester credit hours) Are democracy and dapitalism compatible? Do economic busts and booms affect citizens' voting behavior? Do politicians use the economy for their own political ends, and how this could be avoided? Has globalization undermined the ability of national governments to affect anything with politics anymore? This class explores the relationship between capitalism and democracy in the context of Industrialized Countries by studying the way economic realities affect voting behaviors and politicians, and how globalization affects national government policy. (3-0) T
IPEC 4302 Political Economy of Developing Countries (3 semester credit hours) Is democracy "good'' for growth, or is that just a myth? Is democracy conducive for the development of a capitalistic market system, or does capitalism stunt the advancement of democracy? How have developing countries attempted to "govern the market" to achieve development? How do natural resources affect democracy and society? Are IMF programs "good'' for democracy and growth? This class will explore the relationship between capitalism and democracy in the context of developing countries. (3-0) T
IPEC 4303 Political Economy of South and Southeast Asia (3 semester credit hours) South Asia is the Indian peninsula. Southeast Asia is the great swath of countries from Burma and Thailand through Malaysia to Indonesia and Australia. This is a region of great cultural, political, economic, religious, and historical diversity. This course surveys the region by selectively examining key countries and their mutual interactions. The major countries, which will always be included, are Pakistan, India, Thailand, Indonesia and Australia. Additional countries, which will be included according to interest and available material, include Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Burma, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore, East Timor and New Zealand. (3-0) T
IPEC 4304 Political Economy of Latin America (3 semester credit hours) Addresses historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses case studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current political and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development. The emphasis is to understand the patterns of development and change in the region. (3-0) T
IPEC 4305 Topics in Science, Technology and Institutions (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces the student to important facets of the relationship between science, technology and political-social institutions. The course begins by addressing issues relating to the philosophy of science and related epistemological concerns, i.e. "how do we know what we know?" Issues of deductive and inductive logic are explored, and different viewpoints, including Kuhnian and Popperian approaches to the philosophy of science are examined. The course also examines issues related to the relationship between science and politics. For example, does science promote democracy, and vice versa? Lastly, the course addresses important contemporary topics related to climate change, biotechnology and genetic engineering, artificial intelligence and nanotechnology, and other topics, with the aim of examining the science-technology-society nexus. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
IPEC 4307 Regional Topics in International Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) Students will explore development or political economy trends in a particular country or region. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
IPEC 4308 Political Economy of Africa (3 semester credit hours) Reviews the economics and politics of development in Africa. Focus is on political foundations of economic performance and relationships between governance, geography, institutions, external forces and economic change. Exploration of negative and positive trends, such as continuing crises, democratization, political instability, challenges of economic management, and re-colonization for export commodity production. (3-0) T
IPEC 4309 Urban Development (3 semester credit hours) Explores emergence and expansion of social, political and economic forces that drive urbanization, city growth and decline, and spatial patterns of development at the global, national and metropolitan scale. Focus is on understanding the nature of urban development challenges around the world and on developing public and private sector interventions to address them, including those that target poverty, education, employment, shelter, transportation, land use, economic development, governance and environmental sustainability. (Same as GEOG 4309) (3-0) T
IPEC 4310 Environmental and Health Policy in East Asia (3 semester credit hours) Rapid development in East Asia has brought economic wealth to individuals in this region but has also created serious environmental and health problems such as pollution, resource depletion, pandemics, climate change, and so on. This course explores the environmental and human health challenges in East Asia as well as how governments and other actors are addressing them through various approaches to "sustainable development." East Asia is defined for this course as the region encompassing China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and some countries in Southeast Asia, but we will also focus on the role of the United States as it has been extensively involved in this region, when necessary. To help build the fundamental background of students' understanding of current environmental and health issues in East Asia, the course begins with an overview of historical, geographic, socioeconomic, political, and cultural issues in East Asia, and then examines ongoing policy actions to address various environmental and health problems in the region. Students are expected to take an active role in reviewing and discussing the material and, more importantly, in thinking critically about the interrelations of environment and human health in East Asia. (Same as GISC 4310) (3-0) T
IPEC 4384 Health and Environmental Policy: A Global Perspective (3 semester credit hours) This course covers emerging issues in global health and environmental policy, with special emphasis on applications of Geographic Information System (GIS) and spatial analytic tools in identifying and responding to physical and social environmental risk factors that impact the health and wellbeing of peoples throughout the world. Ample hands-on laboratory experiences will be provided on how to utilize various geospatial methods such as spatial analysis, modeling, simulation and mapping with real-world data using state-of-the-art commercial and open source software. Prerequisite: GEOS 2305 or GISC 2305 or GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304. (Same as GISC 4384) (3-0) T
IPEC 4396 Topics in International Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
IPEC 4V91 Undergraduate Research in International Political Economy (1-6 semester credit hours) Subject and scope to be determined on an individual basis. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
IPEC 4V97 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
IPEC 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
IPEC 4V99 Senior Honors in International Political Economy (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S