MKT 3100 Professional Development (1 semester credit hour) This course is required for all students majoring in Marketing in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. This course is designed to enhance the student's experience in the Naveen Jindal School of Management. Students will work on networking skills, verbal and written communication skills, business etiquette training, and learn how to increase their human capital. Students will also work on projects geared towards career management and overall professional development as a business major. The goal of this class is to make the student a more marketable and valuable professional to the global economy. Students will learn and attend class using hybrid system of online training and on campus training. Credit cannot be received for more than one of the following: ACCT 3100, BA 3100, BCOM 3100, FIN 3100, HMGT 3100, IMS 3100, MIS 3100, MKT 3100 or OPRE 3100. (1-0) S
MKT 3300 Principles of Marketing (3 semester credit hours) An overview of marketing principles including marketing planning, understanding customer's decision making environment, measurement of market performance, product and branding decisions, advertising and promotions, pricing, and distribution. Special emphasis placed upon the determination and evaluation of market segments. (3-0) S
MKT 3320 Product and Brand Management (3 semester credit hours) C3 Certified. This course discusses concepts and cases of planning, building, measuring and management of brands and products. It covers topics such as product management, branding, brand equity, product and service quality, brand positioning, perceptual mapping, long term brand management, and the product life cycle. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419). (3-0) Y
MKT 3330 Introduction to Professional Selling (3 semester credit hours) C3 Certified. This course covers professional selling practices and philosophies at an introductory level. Personal selling skills including developing and qualifying prospects, creating a sales presentation, closing techniques and servicing the sales will be covered for business to business sales. Sales ethics, account relationship management and basic professional networking will also be included. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419). (3-0) Y
MKT 3340 Marketing Research (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of the entire marketing research process, which involves collecting and analyzing data to facilitate better marketing decisions. Specific topics include problem definition, research design, use of secondary data, collecting primary data, designing surveys, sampling, fieldwork, basic data analysis, and reporting of findings. Students are expected to know basic marketing and have an aptitude for quantitative analysis. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (STAT 3360 or OPRE 3360). (3-0) Y
MKT 4090 Marketing Internship (0 semester credit hours) This internship course must be directly related to your major in marketing. Students are expected to complete assignments satisfactorily during the semester and complete the online evaluation at the end of the semester. Information related to assignments or evaluation will be available in the course syllabi. Student must meet internship eligibility guidelines available from the internship coordinator. Credit/No Credit only. Department consent required. (0-0) S
MKT 4321 Marketing Strategy (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of how strategy is developed in marketing. This course emphasizes the integration of knowledge from previous marketing courses and related disciplines. Topics include planning and development of policies, implementation and evaluation of the entire marketing strategy. Case analyses are employed to also understand how to monitor and respond to competition. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419). (3-0) Y
MKT 4322 Price Management (3 semester credit hours) The course teaches students how to set and manage price for products and services based on an understanding of costs, competition, price elasticity, and consumer perceptions based on price. The study also establishes the links between positioning / segmentation and pricing. Students will learn to use break even analysis, to compute price elasticity, and to evaluate price-quality trade-offs. They will also learn how to manage price in response to competitor's price changes. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (STAT 3360 or OPRE 3360). (3-0) Y
MKT 4330 Digital and Internet Marketing (3 semester credit hours) The course provides an introduction to using direct marketing in the digital and social media environment as well as traditional direct response media such as print, DRTV and others. The course has special emphasis on the use of different Internet platforms in direct marketing such as email, paid search and social media (YouTube, Linkedin, Facebook, Twitter). Students will learn how online databases can be accessed for direct marketing purposes. Students will learn how to create and manage a paid search advertising campaign using Google AdWords. Students will have hands on practice through several labs that will cover: importing and exporting data, merging and purging (duplicate) records; using YouTube; creating and running a Google Ads campaign. The measurability and accountability of direct marketing is stressed including Excel based direct marketing math such as return on promotion calculations. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4331 Digital Prospecting (3 semester credit hours) This course covers the methods and metrics, including the tools and software, that are used to manage existing customers and prospects for new customers using specialized CRM software. Focus is on customer relationship management strategy for the purpose of strategic sales account management and prospecting. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and MIS 3300 and MKT 3330. (3-0) Y
MKT 4332 Advanced Personal Selling (3 semester credit hours) The course covers advanced personal selling skills, practices and programs. Emphasis will be placed on sales, presentations, demonstrations, advanced sales techniques, advanced communication and relationship-building skills. Various corporate sales strategies for both consumer and business sales will be explored. This course is intended to prepare students for competitive sales situations and competitions and is primarily intended for students interested in sales careers. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and MKT 3330 and (BCOM 3310 or BCOM 3311), and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 4333 Retailing and Distribution (3 semester credit hours) This course will discuss retailing and distribution including merchandising, positioning strategies, inventory management, pricing, buying functions, advertising and promotion, atmospherics as well as customer satisfaction. Additionally, the course will provide the student with a comprehensive view of retailing and an application of marketing concepts in a practical retail environment along with channel management decisions, channel design, logistics and management of channel relationships. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419). (3-0) Y
MKT 4334 Social Media Marketing (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches special considerations in social media market research, consumer behavior and segmentation as well as how to develop a sound social media strategy (content curation) and content management (Hootsuite, Wordpress). The course will also familiarize students with best practices, case studies and tactical considerations using current popular platforms such as Facebook, Google Plus, Instagram, Pinterest, Twitter, Wordpress, YouTube and others. The metrics of social media will also be covered using both the tools provided by these platforms as well as by third party tools such as Netbase, Tweetstats, etc. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4340 Consumer Behavior (3 semester credit hours) This course covers the theories and research findings to understand how and why consumers make purchase decisions. Topics include information search and information processing models, perception, evaluation of alternatives, consideration set formation and psychological aspects of household decision making. Students apply these concepts to practical design and marketing of new products. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419). (3-0) Y
MKT 4350 Advertising (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the principles and practices of advertising, public relations and promotions. Topics include: the role of the ad agency; the advertising plan based on marketing, research, and consumer behavior; integrated marketing communications; communication goals and measurement, advertising, budgeting, advertising buying, media planning, media scheduling, and art, copy, creativity and production of ads in different media. We also discuss social, ethical and legal issues in advertising. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and MKT 3320. (3-0) Y
MKT 4351 Business and the Digital Environment (3 semester credit hours) This course will expose students to a variety of business issues that have arisen relative to the digital revolution. Companies have been forced to change the way they do business, sell products, distribute products and reach consumers. Students will explore a series of business cases that address overcoming and adapting to disruptive technology, product development, business strategy, managing creative organizations, innovation, intellectual property development, and entrepreneurship. Students will participate in a real life business simulation by developing a business plan or business case for a new start up, product or service in this digital economy. Prerequisites: FIN 3320 and MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4360 Services Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Services (e.g. healthcare, financial, retailing, travel and entertainment, and public sectors) represent about 70% of the US economy. Students will obtain a good grounding regarding the elements of marketing that are important in a service industry. Major topics covered include service design, managing capacity and yield, managing customer relationships and satisfaction, and managing service personnel and operations. Prerequisites: MKT 3300 and MKT 3330. (3-0) Y
MKT 4370 Marketing Projects (3 semester credit hours) Sponsored by local industries, these project provide the students an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge gained to solve real world challenging problems in the area of marketing. Students will interact with industry leaders and gain some industry specific knowledge. Subject to availability, check with the marketing department before enrolling. Prerequisite: MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
MKT 4380 Capstone Course in Marketing (3 semester credit hours) C3 Certified. Students (in teams) are expected to make marketing decisions and compete with other teams to achieve superior performance in terms of market share, profitability and stock price. The course will use marketing simulation to teach practical decision making. Students will make decisions regarding new product specifications, price, production, sales force and advertising as in a real life situation. This course integrates the strategic and the tactical aspects of marketing. Prerequisites: MKT 3320 and MKT 3330 and MKT 3340 and MIS 3300 and FIN 3320. (3-0) Y
MKT 4V83 Individual Study in Marketing (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MKT 4V90 Marketing Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) This internship course must be directly related to your major in marketing. Students are expected to complete assignments satisfactorily during the semester and complete the online evaluation at the end of the semester. Information related to assignments or evaluation will be available in the course syllabi. Student must meet internship eligibility guidelines available from the internship coordinator. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum over 2 semesters). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Y
MKT 4V93 Seminar Series in Marketing (1-3 semester credit hours) Discussion of selected topics and theories in marketing. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R