PA 2325 Introduction to Public Service (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to give students a broad introduction to public service. Students will explore the history of public service in American life, examine the contemporary erosion of interest in public service, explore different options for public service, and draw lessons from their own experience about how to increase the likelihood that more Americans will engage in public service during their lives. The course will also explore the range of alternatives for public impact, whether through traditional political participation (voting), personal volunteering and advocacy, service on nonprofit boards, socially-responsible engagement in corporate careers, social entrepreneurship, or careers in government and nonprofits. (3-0) Y
PA 3306 Advanced Research and Writing for the Policy Sciences (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the relationship between theory and research and will require students to develop a research project that focuses on an area of social policy including, but not limited to, education, welfare, the family, health care and workplace diversity. Implications for public policy will also be considered. Prerequisites: (SOC 1301 or PA 2325) and EPPS 2301 and (EPPS 2302 or EPPS 2303). (Same as SOC 3306) (3-0) Y
PA 3310 Public Administration (3 semester credit hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government agencies within the framework of political values and organizational dynamics. This course will retain core notation for a transition period - see http://go.utdallas.edu/core-curriculum-transition. Please consult advisors for more detailed information. (Same as PSCI 3310) (3-0) S
PA 3314 Financial Management (3 semester credit hours) Financial accounting, control, and management for efficient and effective resource use within public and nonprofit organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 3333 Human Resources Management (3 semester credit hours) Leadership, motivation, decision making, conflict resolution, performance, and other important challenges of personnel management in government organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester credit hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. This course will retain core notation for a transition period - see http://go.utdallas.edu/core-curriculum-transition. Please consult advisors for more detailed information. (Same as GEOG 3377) (3-0) Y
PA 3378 Public Finance and Economics (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on the application of economic theories to understand the role of government. Students will learn how to use the tools of microeconomics to interpret the impacts of government policies. Topics include the role of tax, public expenditure policies, public goods, externalities, social security, and regulation. (3-0) Y
PA 3379 Diversity in the Public Sector (3 semester credit hours) This course will focus on diversity beyond just race/ethnicity and gender, and examine dimensions of sexual orientation, religion, skill level, physical ability, communication styles, and multi-generations in the workplace. Understanding diversity and learning how to manage its complexity is the key focus of this class. Students will examine the importance of multiple cultures in public organizations in work teams and discuss the challenges that come with multiculturalism. Social interactions that contribute to the understanding of difference groups in diverse settings are examined. (3-0) Y
PA 3380 Organizations and Management in the Public Sector (3 semester credit hours) This course covers the major topics, issues, and contributions in the literature on organizations and management, with emphasis on applications to government and nonprofit organizations. Class readings draw from leading scholars in a variety of disciplinary traditions in order to shed light on the historical development of the literature. Additionally, the course material will review some of the contemporary approaches to the study of organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 3381 Field Research Methods (3 semester credit hours) Research practicum in which students learn how to conduct field research, conduct observations and interviews in the field, write field notes, and use these to analyze data. Readings focus on fieldwork roles and relations, observing and describing, writing field notes, field interviewing, ethical issues, and preliminary data analysis. Fieldwork and extensive field notes required. Instructor consent required. (Same as SOC 3381) (3-0) R
PA 4340 Creating High Performance Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Explores the managerial behaviors required to build high levels of performance necessary in contemporary work organizations. Explores performance management, employee engagement and high quality services, and new discoveries in the neurosciences and psychology that enhance human well- being while creating more productive work environments. (3-0) Y
PA 4345 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiations in the public sector. Students analyze the parties, issues and strategies in negotiations and will take part in many negotiation simulations to develop their skills in issues identification and problem resolution. The course will begin with the study of two-party negotiations and progress to multi-party, multi-issue negotiations. (Same as PSCI 4345) (3-0) T
PA 4350 Politics of Bureaucracy (3 semester credit hours) Provides an in-depth knowledge of some of the major issues in bureaucracy including internal dynamics of public organizations, acquisition and allocation of public funds, the roles of ethics and accountability, as well as the roles of bureaucracy in relation to public policy, clients, the citizenry, and society. (Same as SOC 4352) (3-0) Y
PA 4351 Urban Management (3 semester credit hours) Examination of ways in which the fiscal and administrative policies of local government shape the structure of opportunities and incentives in urban areas. (3-0) R
PA 4352 Emerging Communication Strategies in Nonprofit and Public Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course reviews current and emerging communication tools and technologies employed by nonprofit and public sector managers. Marketing and public relations approaches are addressed through the lens of organizational mission and strategic goals. The course is both theoretical and practical, offering a review of the public and nonprofit sectors, while building on effective social media strategies employed in nonprofit and public-sector program implementation, donor relations, stakeholder communication, issue-advocacy, and information dissemination. Emphasis is placed on the development of communication between organizations and their publics. Regulatory, ethical, and privacy constraints are also explored as students develop an overall appreciation of the potential costs and benefits of social media as management and marketing tools. This course may be offered in a hybrid environment with on-site and online learning. (3-0) Y
PA 4355 Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses the basic concepts of the trillion dollar nonprofit sector (also known as the Third Sector) that includes education, research, health care, art, religion, social services, advocacy, legal services, international assistance, foundations and mutual benefit organizations. This comprehensive course provides a thorough introduction and understanding to the sector with a focus on the history of nonprofit organizations in America, qualifications for charitable groups, and international comparisons. (3-0) Y
PA 4370 Leadership (3 semester credit hours) Explores a full range of leadership theories and modern views of requisites for success in positions of leadership. Students will take from this course knowledge of leadership theories and practical knowledge for applying leadership principles in any organizational setting. (3-0) Y
PA 4386 Social Policy in Modern Societies (3 semester credit hours) Examines the controversies and research concerning the development of welfare states and public social provision. Particular emphasis is placed on the U.S. public social spending system, in historical and comparative perspective. Explanations of developments in social policies and an assessment of their applicability to the American welfare state and those of other societies are considered. (Same as SOC 4386) (3-0) R
PA 4387 Project Management (3 semester credit hours) A practical examination of how projects are managed from start to finish. The emphasis is on planning and control to avoid common pitfall and manage risk. Planning includes defining objectives, identifying activities, establishing precedence relationships, making time estimates, determining project completion times, and determining resource requirements. (3-0) R
PA 4396 Topics in Public Administration (3 semester credit hours) Subject matters of current interest. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
PA 4V97 Independent Study in Public Administration (1-9 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
PA 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PA 4V99 Senior Honors in Public Administration (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R