BPS 6151 Executive Study Trip - Americas (1 semester credit hour) Executive Education Course. This course focuses on economic and political strategy. Considers international business, political, and cultural issues for doing business globally. Instructor consent required. (1-0) Y
BPS 6251 Capstone: Integration Enterprise (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This 2-hour course will immerse the student in an initial examination and/or design of a substantial project within a corporation intended to raise corporate value by transforming the business. The emphasis will be on new uses of assets and resources, not the improved management of existing activities. This is intended to develop the executive capacity of the individual student. (2-0) Y
BPS 6253 Strategic Leadership (2 semester credit hours) Addresses the challenge of leading organizations in dynamic and challenging environments. Overall goal is to not only question one's assumptions about leadership, but also enhance skills and acquire new content knowledge. Topics include visionary and transformational leadership; post-heroic leadership; empowerment; leveraging and combining resources; designing organizations; and ethics. (2-0) Y
BPS 6254 Performance Transformation (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course provides students with a toolbox of strategy models to develop corporate strategies and implement corporate transformation. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BPS 6255 Field Project (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Students work with a local business to understand and evaluate current corporate issues. Students develop a transformational strategy and present their findings to corporate sponsors and faculty. Prerequisites: BPS 6254 and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BPS 6256 C-Suite Leadership (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course explores the leadership of executive officers in influencing and implementing public policy; creating the public image of the firm; and corporate social responsibility. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
BPS 6302 Strategic Business Communications (3 semester credit hours) The ability to communicate clearly and persuasively is the hallmark of a successful leader. Students in this course will get hands-on experience working through communication challenges in a realistic and dynamic class setting, and will learn the importance of communication for problem solving and decision-making in business. Material emphasizes both written and oral presentation skills and the use of media/technology. For students in all business areas. (3-0) Y
BPS 6305 Ethical Issues in International Business (3 semester credit hours) Examines ethical concepts such as justice, equality, freedom, and responsibility as they relate to the functioning of an economic system. Specific problems facing the global business organization will be discussed from an ethical perspective. Articulation of management philosophy incorporating the ethical dimension. (3-0) S
BPS 6310 Strategic Management (3 semester credit hours) Strategic management consists of the analysis, decisions, and actions that organizations take to create sustainable competitive advantages. The course examines a variety of issues including environmental, competitor, and stakeholder analysis; strategy formulation; and strategy implementation and control. The central role of ethics and corporate governance as well as global issues will be addressed. Prerequisites: ((ACCT 6201 and ACCT 6202) or ACCT 6305) and FIN 6301 and MKT 6301 and OB 6301. (3-0) S
BPS 6311 Strategy Implementation (3 semester credit hours) Implementation issues of strategic planning. Topics include: planning system design, organizing for planning, situation analysis, and corporate/divisional relationships. Cases and selected readings illustrate the key planning concepts. Prerequisite: BPS 6210 or BPS 6310 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BPS 6312 Advanced Multinational Business Seminar (3 semester credit hours) This seminar aims at the broadening of business strategy horizons to include the international dimension applied to topical business problems. It also responds to the recent findings of the US Management schools that precepts of corporate strategy for national markets are subject to many exceptions and require much supplementation when applied to multinational markets. This course also aims at providing support for the Dallas metroplex area business organizations for designing and implementing their strategies in general, multinational strategies in particular. This course will investigate topical and sector-based implementation problems derived from the participants' own companies or current business media. (3-0) T
BPS 6332 (SYSM 6320) Strategic Leadership (3 semester credit hours) Addresses the challenge of leading organizations in dynamic and challenging environments. Overall goal is to not only question one's assumptions about leadership, but also enhance skills and acquire new content knowledge. Topics include visionary and transformational leadership, post-heroic leadership, empowerment, leveraging and combining resources, designing organizations and ethics. (3-0) Y
BPS 6340 Accountability and Ethics in Corporate Governance (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses the issues faced by top management teams and boards of directors, including compensation, investor relations, social responsibility, and accountability in the context of ethical strategic policy making. (3-0) S
BPS 6351 Business Transformation Project II (3 semester credit hours) This three hour course will immerse the student in an initial examination and/or design of a substantial project within a corporation intended to raise corporate value by transforming the business. The emphasis will be on new uses of assets and resources, not the improved management of existing activities. This is intended to develop the executive capacity of the individual student. Department consent required. (3-0) Y
BPS 6360 Management and Organizational Consulting: Theory and Practice (3 semester credit hours) Management consulting now accounts for more than $120 billion in global annual revenues. In addition to these full-time consultants, more and more employees are also in roles of a consultative nature, as the knowledge-intensive nature of work increases. This course will begin with a review of the theoretical foundations of the client-consultant relationship, drawing from counseling psychology and other disciplines, then broaden to cover theories of Organizational Behavior, Organizational Learning and Strategy. Through various workshops and hands-on exercises, participants will apply these theories in a number of scenarios relevant for consulting. Special attention will be given to prepare students to become confident practitioners, by bridging the theory-practice gap in the practice of management and organizational consulting. Prerequisite: OB 6301. (3-0) T
BPS 6379 Business Strategies for Sustainability (3 semester credit hours) The course introduces student to sustainable business practices. The role of legislation and its impact on business practices as well as proactive business strategies firms use to differentiate themselves and obtain a competitive advantage will also be addressed. By viewing a firm through an environmental lens, managers find opportunities to reduce risks, drive down costs, and create intangible value. Further, firms can build stronger connections with a broad range of stakeholders. (3-0) Y
BPS 6V99 Special Topics in Business Policy and Strategy (1-4 semester credit hours) May be lecture, readings, or individualized study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
BPS 7300 Advanced Strategic Management Seminar I (3 semester credit hours) This is the first of a two-part series of PhD seminars in strategic management that (1) expose students to various theories and topics in strategic management research, and (2) train students to become informed researchers who will be able to contribute to this literature. This seminar covers the major theories in current research addressing strategy formulation and implementation. Prerequisite: OB 7300. (3-0) T
BPS 7301 Advanced Strategic Management Seminar II (3 semester credit hours) This is the second of the two-part series of PhD seminars in strategic management. Together the two seminars (1) expose students to various theories and topics in strategic management research, and (2) train students to become informed researchers who will be able to contribute to this literature. Seminar II focuses more on the empirical research in major topics such as strategic alliances, networks, competitive dynamics and knowledge management. Students learn to use the different theories introduced in the previous seminar as tools for analyzing strategic business phenomena. Prerequisite: BPS 7300. (3-0) Y
BPS 7302 Research Methodology (3 semester credit hours) The aim of this course is to lay the foundations for good empirical research in the social sciences and to introduce students to the assumptions and logic underlying social research. Students become acquainted with a variety of approaches to research design, and are helped to develop their own research projects and to evaluate the products of empirical research. (3-0) Y
BPS 7303 Doctoral Teaching and Writing Seminar (3 semester credit hours) Provides the tools necessary for beginning academics to think critically about teaching and writing to enable them to be successful researchers and effective teachers. Students will not only be exposed to research on effective writing and teaching, but will also work actively with classmates both within and across areas to improve their ability to write clearly and teach well. The course will require students to assess both their own writing and the writing of others. Students will practice putting together a syllabus, creating assignments for students, and presenting explanations of difficult concepts. (3-0) Y
BPS 7307 Management Scholarship (3 semester credit hours) As management scholars, why do we do what we do? What is it that we do? How do we do a better job? How do we make stronger contributions not only to academia but also to society? The short-run aim of this course is to familiarize PhD students with the various rules of the game associated with our profession. Its long-run aim is to enhance PhD students' odds for success as management scholars. Although designed primarily for PhD students, interested master's students can enroll. (3-0) T