ED 5318 Supervised Teaching Internship (3 semester credit hours) Students are hired by a partner school district as a teacher of record with university supervision, workshops, and mentoring during the two semesters they are enrolled in this course. Prerequisites: Admission to internship program. Students will also enroll in ED 5319 the second semester of the Internship. Passing scores on both state required TExES examinations. Internship consent required. (3-0) Y
ED 5319 Supervised Teaching Internship II (3 semester credit hours) The second semester of supervised teaching internship. Prerequisite: successful completion of ED 5318 and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
ED 5320 Issues in Educational Technology (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses two key technological issues that directly impact education: information overload and nonlinear processing. These same challenges offer the key to effective design and integration of web-based media into the classroom learning environment. Teachers, administrators, researchers, and curriculum developers will learn how to select/apply appropriate tools to enhance classroom teaching and school management. This course is offered in an online format only. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
ED 5344 Chess I: Introduction (3 semester credit hours) A consideration of methods for using chess to teach critical thinking, math, and reading skills in the elementary classroom, based upon the curricular model developed by McNeil. This course is also appropriate for chess instructors who wish to incorporate additional academic and humanistic goals into their programs. No previous knowledge of chess is required. This course is offered in an online format only. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
ED 5345 Chess II: Institutional and Cultural Contexts of Chess (3 semester credit hours) A consideration of the role of chess historically and in contemporary culture. This course explores chess research and educational resources. Analysis of the interactions of women and chess through the ages. Each student prepares a proposal based on the curriculum model of Ralph W. Tyler, for chess at an institution. No previous knowledge of chess is required. This course is offered in an online format only. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
ED 5V01 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. An independent study course involves an individual contract between the student and a faculty member, specifying what requirements the student will meet. This usually involves some combination of reading, research, papers, examinations, and meetings with the faculty member. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor Consent Required. ([1-6]-0) R
ED 5V02 Special Topics in Education (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. ([1-3]-0) R