EMAC 6300 Interdisciplinary Studies in Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester hours) This course is an interdisciplinary study of the implications of interactive technology for the creation, dissemination and impact of communication. Establishes basic theoretical concepts and principles underlying the graduate program in Emerging Media and Communication. (3-0) Y
EMAC 6342 Digital Culture (3 semester hours) This course will examine the way that the digital network alters various cultural practices. Students will examine a range of institutions, practices, and values that are affected by the digital shift. Topics may include, privacy, legal practices, journalism, politics, and intellectual property. (3-0) T
EMAC 6361 (ATEC 6361) Creating Interactive Media (3 semester hours) This course covers theory, principles, and practice of media objects created for an interactive environment. Sections may be devoted exclusively to a single aspect of emerging media and communications or to a multiplicity of subjects related to the field. (May be repeated to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (0-3) T
EMAC 6365 Journalism and the Digital Network (3 semester hours) This course will examine the ways in which the digital network has (and by extension has not) transformed the work of reporting, filtering, and creating the news. (3-0) T
EMAC 6372 (ATEC 6372) Approaches to Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester hours) This course focuses on the conceptual study of emerging media. Course may explore the theoretical, political, technological, cultural, cognitive, and historical forces which inform the way media and communication develop. (3-0) T
EMAC 6373 (ATEC 6373) Emerging Media Studio I (3 semester hours) This course explores media production across multiple media. Students work in teams to develop meta-media projects in a variety of content delivery environments. Class will require students to develop a range of rhetorical (text, audio) and visual (image, video) strategies appropriate for emerging media. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
EMAC 6374 (ATEC 6374) Digital Textuality (3 semester hours) This course will combine theory and practice to focus on shifts in text, image, and sound. Students will become acquainted with the influence of the digital on forms of textuality and put theory into practice by communicating ideas through multiple media forms. (3-0) T
EMAC 6375 Research Methodologies in Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester hours) This course introduces the basic set of knowledge and skills required for conducting rigorous research in emerging media and communication from various approaches. The concepts, strategies, methods, and skills that you will acquire in this course should help you to understand the implications and limitations of research reported by others, and to conduct and publish research in your chosen area of inquiry. Methods covered might include qualitative, quantitative, and/or ethnographic approaches. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 hours.) (3-0) T
EMAC 6381 Special Topics in Emergent Communication (3 semester hours) A course dedicated to current issues, research problems, and special projects in emerging media and communication. Topics will vary and may include distributed, mobile, time-shifted, interactive and personal media. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
EMAC 6383 Emerging Media Studio II (3 semester hours) Advanced collaborative workshop devoted to the creation of sophisticated communications employing multiple media platforms. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (0-3) T
EMAC 6v91 Advanced Project Workshop (3-6 semester hours) Students propose, develop and execute an advanced creative and/or research project exploring the Emerging Media and Communication. This course is required of all degree candidates in Emerging Media and Communication. ([3-6]-0) Y