HUAS 6303 Performance Literature, Theory, and Criticism (3 semester hours) Examination of a wide range of performance and theatrical traditions and texts. Using various critical and theoretical perspectives, the focus will be on the interplay between textual analysis, theoretical and critical frames, and performance. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6305 Criticism, Interpretation, and Performance (3 semester hours) An investigation of interrelationship among the activities of criticizing, interpreting, and performing artistic texts. Examples may be drawn from literature, theater, performance art, web and inter-media applications, film/video, music, and visual arts. The course will include an exploration of the effects of various cultural and theoretical perspectives on our response to specific works. (3-0) T
HUAS 6310 Introduction to Film Studies (3 semester hours) Study of the history and formal and stylistic elements of cinema as a medium of expression, as an industry, and as an art form; and an introduction to the tenets and theoretical basis of the academic discipline known as film studies. (3-0) T
HUAS 6312 Art and Society (3 semester hours) Study of the many forms of interaction between the arts and the society in which they exist. Topics may include the role of the artist in society, the representation of social and religious values in art, or the influence of art and the artist upon society. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6313 The Business of the Arts (3 semester hours) Exploration of effective means to find, create, and manage markets and audiences for works of art. Topics may include digital media, visual or performing arts, museum studies, and arts management. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6315 The Arts in Historical Contexts (3 semester hours) Studies in one or more arts of various places and historical periods. Topics will vary, but may focus on a particular movement (e.g., Surrealism), a specific era (e.g., the Renaissance), or a place (e.g., Paris in the early twentieth century). (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) Y
HUAS 6317 Art and Authorship (3 semester hours) In-depth study of the role of the work, cultural milieu, and impact of an individual artist, writer, filmmaker, composer, performer, critic, scholar, or cultural historian. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6318 Arts and Their Institutions (3 semester hours) Studies of the institutions that shape and present the visual and performing arts by providing their physical, administrative , and financial frames; art museums, theaters, symphony associations, performance consortiums, or private foundations. The course will focus selectively on these institutions, grouping them for study in various ways depending on the interests and expertise of the instructor. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6320 Studies in Experimental Traditions (3 semester hours) Studies in the works of artists whose experimentation with forms of expression breaks new ground in the arts and demands changes in the aesthetic perception of the public. The course will focus on such experimental movements as modernism, postmodernism and various avant-gardes that form the new tradition of the contemporary arts. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6324 Spaces of Display and Performance (3 semester hours) Usually art works and performances are encountered in specific ritualized spaces designed for them and exerting strong influence on their character. The course will address such spaces critically from the point of view of architecture, theories of display, and concepts of ritual spectatorship. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6330 Studies in the Visual Arts (3 semester hours) Explorations in various forms of the visual arts. The course may focus on a specific form (e.g., painting, sculpture, film, photography) or interrelations among visual forms. Emphasis will be on the understanding of the creative process underlying the finished work. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6331 Studies in Music (3 semester hours) Studies in forms of musical expression. Topics will vary, but the course will emphasize the nature, development, and artistic possibilities of various forms of music. Courses may relate music to developments in other arts. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6333 Advanced Orchestra/Chamber Music Ensemble (3 semester hours) Workshop in which instrumentalists, singers, dancers, actors, composers, lyricists, visual artists and/or video/performance artists create and perform music for small and larger ensembles, plus multi-media and theater works. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) Permission of instructor required. (3-0) T
HUAS 6334 Iberian Culture and Music (3 semester hours) Study of the transfer of music and culture between Spain, Portugal, and the countries of the Americas which had close connections to the Iberian countries via language, culture, and commerce. (3-0) T
HUAS 6336 Photography Studio/Seminar (3 semester hours) Workshop-based course designed to foster reflection on the relationship between human perception and the photographic mediation of reality. The course may emphasis photographic processes or conceptual frameworks. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6337 Digital Photography (3 semester hours) Workshop in which students explore digital photography within the context of contemporary art, emphasizing the relationship between digital imaging processes and color photographic techniques. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6339 Painting/Digital Imaging/Video (3 semester hours) Workshop in which students will pursue creative work in a medium of their preference or expertise (can include painting, drawing, digital imaging, video or hybrid forms). (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6340 Studies in Theater and Dance (3 semester hours) An investigation of theater, performance art, inter-media, and/or dance as forms of art. The course will relate to and incorporate trends in other arts and contemporary intellectual and cultural movements, theories and critical issues. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6345 Shakespeare in Performance (3 semester hours) Studies of Shakespeare's plays, examining varied artistic and scholarly interpretations in film and performance. The course will blend lectures, discussions, and practical skill-based exercises and may include scholarly and/or creative projects. Meant for aspiring writers, actors, directors, and teachers, with or without experience in performing. May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 6 semester hours. Topics may vary. (3-0) T
HUAS 6347 Solo Performance (3 semester hours) Workshop in which students explore aspects of devising, writing and performing solos, with an emphasis on developing work in multiple genres, media, and formats. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6348 Performance Installation (3 semester hours) An exploration of the theory, history, and practice of employing installation and performance art with technology as a means of extending personal artistic practice. Emphasis will be on practical experience in the conceptualization and production of collaborative, experimental, trans-disciplinary artistic expression. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6350 Creating Poetry (3 semester hours) An investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of the art and creation of poetry, focusing on the creative techniques and processes involved in producing poems and song lyrics in a variety of formalist, free verse, and experimental forms that combine verbal, written art with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6351 Creating Novels (3 semester hours) An investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of the art and creation of the novel, focusing on the creative techniques and processes involved in producing novels in a variety of lyrical, experimental, and traditional forms that combine verbal, written art with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6352 Creating Television and Movie Scripts (3 semester hours) An investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of art and creation of movie, multimedia, video, and television scripts, focusing on the creative techniques and processes involved in producing scripts in a variety of experimental and traditional forms that combine verbal, written art with acting, filmmaking, and production. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6353 Creating Plays and Musicals (3 semester hours) An investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of art and creation of drama, focusing on the creative techniques and processes involved in producing plays and musicals in a variety of experimental and traditional forms that combine verbal, written art with the musical and dramatic arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6354 Creating Short Fictions (3 semester hours) An investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of the art and creation of the short story and the novella, focusing on the creative techniques and processes involved in producing short stories in a variety of experimental and traditional forms that combine verbal, written art with the visual and performing arts. Topics may vary. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6355 Creating Nonfictions (3 semester hours) This workshop will draw from one or several nonfiction genres such as portraiture, historical accounts, essays, biography, and autobiography and will show how they are realized using techniques by the creation of art. Topics may vary but may include visual artists, filmmakers, composers, or other artists. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6373 Studies in Film, Television, and Digital Media (3 semester hours) Study of aspects of motion picture history, criticism, and aesthetics. Topics may include genre study; documentary practices; national cinemas or movements; theories of reception; or comparisons of these and other art forms. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6375 Imagery and Iconography (3 semester hours) The study of the visual image, its uses, and constructions of meaning. Topics may include the nature of the visual image, the modes of interpretation of visual images, the relationship of image and text, and the ways in which the visual image is used to shape our imagination. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6377 Critical Theory and the Visual Arts (3 semester hours) A mapping of the relations between the visual arts and critical theories from the mid-20th century to the present. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 6 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6380 Creating Poetry: Intermediate (3 semester hours) An intensive investigation into the forms (both ancient and modern), theories, and creations of poetry in a workshop environment that will focus on the creative techniques and processes involved in producing formalist, lyrical, free verse, and experimental poetry. Permission of the instructor and previous completion of HUAS 6350 are required. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6381 Creating Fiction: Intermediate (3 semester hours) An intensive investigation into the theories, aesthetics, and creation of fiction in a workshop environment that will focus both on structure and on creative techniques and creative process involved in producing sophisticated, challenging, and linguistically developed fictions. The course may emphasize the short story, novel, or novella. Permission of the instructor and previous completion of HUAS 6351 or HUAS 6354 are required. Topics may vary. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6383 Creating Scripts: Intermediate (3 semester hours) An intense investigation of the theory, history, aesthetics, art, and creation of play, movie, and television scripts in a workshop environment that will focus on the creative techniques and processes involved not only in the creation of film, play, and television scripts, but also in the production of plays, films, and television episodes. Permission of the instructor and previous completion of either HUAS 6352 or HUAS 6353 required. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6385 Creating Nonfictions: Intermediate (3 semester hours) An intensive investigation into the theory, aesthetics, and creation of biographies, autobiographies, and historical accounts in a workshop environment that will explore the boundaries between fiction and non-fiction and between art and reality. Permission of the instructor and previous completion of HUAS 6355 are required. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 6390 Special Topics in Aesthetic and Performance Studies (3 semester hours) Independent studies course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the M.A. degree. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUAS 6391 Creativity: Visual Arts Workshop (3 semester hours) A workshop emphasizing the creation of artistic works in a specific area of the visual arts (e.g., painting, drawing, photography, sculpture). Topics, such as narrative representation or the study of a genre, are explored to examine the theoretical basis guiding practice. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6392 Creativity: Image/Text Workshop (3 semester hours) An exploration of the visual possibilities inherent in the art of the text. Topics may include an investigation of techniques derived from various media that foster the transformation and combination of words and images. The problem of creating text for a visual environment will be examined. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6393 Creativity: Time-Based Arts Workshop (3 semester hours) Exploration of the conceptual demands inherent in time-based visual art. Topics may include interactive visual arts, installation, kinetic art, computer animation, and video processes. The potential of narrative models may be examined. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6394 Creativity: Performance (3 semester hours) A skills-based course intended to enable the exploration, development, and realization of a performance expression. Project-focused, the course may include playwriting, adaption of non-dramatic or oral history sources, or be guided by specific text(s), improvisation, inter-cultural or inter-media explorations. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) T
HUAS 6397 Independent Readings in Aesthetic and Performance Studies (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R
HUAS 6398 Independent Research in Aesthetic and Performance Studies (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R
HUAS 6399 Music in Historical Context (3 semester hours) Study of music in society: dates, periods, genres, style characteristics, major figures, representative masterworks, political/economical/social climate, corollaries in literature, theatre, visual art. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUAS 6608 Performance Training (6 semester hours) Intensive workshop-based course focusing on training and performance techniques to develop skills and methods for creating new performance. Activities include physical and vocal training, performance games and exercises, and will focus on methods, strategies, and processes of creation. Special attention to the performer's relation to 'text' exploration and evolution. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 12 credit hours.) (6-0) T
HUAS 6609 Music Performance (6 semester hours) Applied study of instrumental/vocal techniques, interpretation, repertoire building and performance practice. May be repeated for credit (12 hours maximum). (6-0) T
HUAS 7305 Advanced Topics in Art History (3 semester hours) Advanced studies in one or more arts of various places and historical periods. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 7320 Advanced Topics in the Visual Arts (3 semester hours) Advanced explorations in various forms of the visual arts. The course may focus on a specific genre or form or on interrelations among visual forms. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 7330 Advanced Topics in Music (3 semester hours) Advanced studies in forms of musical expression. The course will emphasize the nature, development, and artistic possibilities of various forms of music. Courses may relate music to developments in other arts. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 7340 Advanced Topics in Theater and Dance (3 semester hours) Advanced investigation of theater, performance art, inter-media, and/or dance as forms of art. The course will relate to and incorporate trends in other arts and contemporary intellectual and cultural movements, theories and critical issues. (May be repeated as topics vary for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 7349 Advanced Topics in Creative Writing (3 semester hours) Advanced investigation of the theory, history, aesthetics, art, and creation of creative writing in a workshop environment. The course may focus on poetry, short stories, scripts or other genres. Permission of instructor and completion of 6 hours of graduate creative writing is required. (May be repeated as topics vary for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 7355 Interdisciplinary Studies in Music (3 semester hours) Study of music in relation to one or more of the other arts/disciplines: literature, theatre, dance, visual art, cinema, history, psychology, technology, etc. (May be repeated for credit as topics vary to a maximum of 9 credit hours) (3-0) T
HUAS 7360 Advanced Topics in Film, Television, and Digital Media (3 semester hours) Advanced study of particular aspects of motion picture history, criticism, and aesthetics. Topics may include genre study; documentary practices; national cinemas or movements; theories of reception; or comparisons of these and other art forms. (May be repeated as topics vary for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) T
HUAS 7380 Advanced Topics in Aesthetic Studies (3 semester hours) Advanced study of particular themes, topics, and issues in the various disciplines that constitute aesthetic studies. (May be repeated as topics vary for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUAS 7390 Advanced Special Topics in Aesthetic and Performance Studies (3 semester hours) Independent studies course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the Ph.D. degree. (May be repeated for credit to a maximum of 9 credit hours.) (3-0) R
HUAS 7601 Advanced Music Performance (6 semester hours) Applied study of advanced instrumental/vocal techniques, interpretive insights, repertoire building and historical performance practice. May be repeated for credit (12 hours maximum). (6-0) T
HUAS 8303 Independent Readings in Aesthetic and Performance Studies (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R
HUAS 8305 Independent Research in Aesthetic and Performance Studies (3 semester hours) (May be repeated for credit.) (3-0) R