RHET 1302 (ENGL 1302) Rhetoric (3 semester credit hours) This course presents an integrated approach to writing, reading, and critical thinking by developing the grammatical, logical, and rhetorical skills necessary for university writing. (3-0) S
RHET 2302 Intermediate Composition and Rhetoric (3 semester credit hours) This course continues the exploration of principles and practices in rhetoric and writing. Students will be introduced to patterns of writing used in reports and letters for business, industry, and technology. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
RHET 3302 Visual Rhetoric (3 semester credit hours) Professional communicators must be able to apply critical thinking and to analyze the rhetorical situation to create efficient and effective visual aids and messages. This course prepares students to analyze the situation and consider a variety of visual options (e.g., video, photography, art, graphs, and tables) to successfully relay information and meet the audience's needs. Students will consider print and digital options, cultural expectations, design principles, and format. Students will also research and discuss literacy and evaluate a variety of visual documents and aids. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and RHET 2302) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
RHET 3303 Professional and Technical Writing in Career Fields (3 semester credit hours) This course explores writing in the workplace and surveys documents used in occupations such as the law, business, social service occupations, medicine, engineering, arts-related occupations, and publishing. Students will review documents such as professional contracts, employee newsletters, HR manuals, and trade publications and will learn the basic structure and mechanics necessary to write these documents. Students will also learn about the latest trends in writing in the workplace and how technology is changing professional and technical writing in business. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and RHET 2302) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
RHET 4302 Advanced Writing and Research (3 semester credit hours) This course prepares students to practice advanced writing techniques as well as to research content and audience perspective. Students will study advanced style principles to create clear, concise content for professional and personal documents. Students will also learn about document development, advanced research methods, how to write and research in an ethical manner, and how to write on a collaborative basis. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and RHET 2302 and RHET 3303) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
RHET 4303 Advanced Editing (3 semester credit hours) This course prepares students to strengthen deliverables such as presentations and reports. Students will learn how to propose and manage projects, to create style guides and editing plans, to query authors, and to respectfully provide constructive criticism. Students will also consider management and processes related to editing a project as a team as well as those related to an individual editor. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and RHET 2302 and RHET 3303) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R