SPAN 1311 Beginning Spanish I (3 semester credit hours) This course will integrate acquisition of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with the study of Spanish culture and civilization. Prerequisite: Completion of the language placement exam or instructor consent required. (3-0) S
SPAN 1312 Beginning Spanish II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of Beginning Spanish I. It will integrate acquisition of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with study of Spanish culture and civilization. Prerequisite: SPAN 1311 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) S
SPAN 2311 (SPAN 2311) Intermediate Spanish I (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of Beginning Spanish. It will include review and application of skills in listening comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. The course emphasizes conversation, vocabulary acquisition, reading, composition, and culture. Includes the study of Spanish culture and civilization. Prerequisite: SPAN 1312 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) S
SPAN 2312 (SPAN 2312) Intermediate Spanish II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of Intermediate Spanish I. It will include review and application of skills in listening comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. The course focuses on conversation, vocabulary acquisition, reading, and composition. A major course component will be an emphasis on Spanish culture and civilization. Prerequisite: SPAN 2311 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) S
SPAN 2341 Medical Spanish (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to introduce students to the utilization of the Spanish language in the health care arena. A combination of written and oral exercises will be employed in a workshop atmosphere. Prerequisite: SPAN 2311 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 3340 Advanced Medical Spanish (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of SPAN 2341. Students will continue the study and practice of the Spanish language in the health care arena. A combination of written and oral exercises will be employed in a workshop atmosphere. Prerequisite: SPAN 2341. (3-0) Y
SPAN 3363 Spanish Composition and Style (3 semester credit hours) Designed to offer students the opportunity to perfect linguistic skills and to comprehend selected works of Peninsular and Spanish-American writers. Prerequisite: SPAN 2312 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) R
SPAN 3365 Advanced Spanish I (3 semester credit hours) The course is designed to help students to build continuous vocabulary, increase the understanding of the Hispanic culture, and augment speaking fluency. The course will cover reading comprehension, discussion of literature, composition, and conversation. Prerequisite: SPAN 2312 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 3366 Advanced Spanish II (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to help students to build continuous vocabulary, increase the understanding of the Hispanic culture, and augment speaking fluency. The course will also cover Spanish idioms and stylistic elements of Spanish which are illustrated in literature, composition, and conversation. Prerequisite: SPAN 3365 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 4301 Advanced Spanish Conversation (3 semester credit hours) Focuses on developing advanced conversational skills via listening and speaking. Students will improve fluency and increase their vocabulary during class discussions. Discussions are based on contemporary Spanish films, current articles, fiction and essays. Prerequisite: SPAN 3366 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 4302 Spanish Conversation and Community (3 semester credit hours) This advanced Spanish course focuses on the acquisition and practice of Spanish by bringing students in contact with native Spanish speakers. Field work away from the classroom is required. Prerequisite: SPAN 4301 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) Y
SPAN 4315 Study Abroad in Spanish (3 semester credit hours) This course is taken in conjunction with travel and study abroad in a Spanish-speaking country under the supervision of a professor in the School of Arts and Humanities. Students learn language and local culture through an immersion experience. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
SPAN 4364 Advanced Spanish Culture (3 semester credit hours) This course will provide students with a basic knowledge of and appreciation for the Spanish language, culture and civilization as found in Spain, Latin America, and the Hispanic communities in the U.S.A. The traditional elements and new trends of the culture as revealed in the arts, music, film and literature will be covered. Classes will be conducted in Spanish with occasional use of English for clarification of difficult concepts only. Prerequisite: SPAN 3365 or equivalent or department consent required. (3-0) Y