BIS 1100 Interdisciplinary Studies Freshman Seminar (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed to introduce students to the programs offered through the School of Interdisciplinary Studies and to assist students adjust to university life. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-1) Y
BIS 2V90 Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (1-6 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
BIS 3190 Library Research Skills (1 semester credit hour) Through this online course, students will develop the skills to identify what information is needed for their research, how to find and evaluate scholarly resources, and how to organize the information for a paper or other course project. Plagiarism, copyright, and citation management will be included. (1-0) S
BIS 3320 The Nature of Intellectual Inquiry (3 semester credit hours) Major core course designed to enhance the student's critical thinking and reasoning in order to understand and utilize the methodologies of scholarly pursuits. To be taken during the student's first twelve semester credit hours as a junior in the Interdisciplinary Studies program on a letter grade only. There is an honors section of this course for those interested in honors in the major. (3-0) S
BIS 3V03 Educational Issues (1-6 semester credit hours) This course is designed to allow students to study and analyze various educational issues under the direct supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor and Associate Dean consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
BIS 4303 Senior Honors in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 semester credit hours) Required for graduation magna cum laude and summa cum laude. See requirements for Graduation with Latin Honors in this catalog. Instructor and Associate Dean consent required. (3-0) S
BIS 4305 Learning Studies Practicum (3 semester credit hours) Supervised instructional experiences with school-age students. Focus is on enrichment activities that meet the learning needs of individual students. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BIS 4306 Strategies for Diversity in Education (3 semester credit hours) This course prepares teacher certification candidates to meet the challenges of student diversity in the general education classroom. Students will examine the roles of various professionals, overview the identification and needs of special education and gifted and talented students through the lenses of gender, ethnicity, culture and language. Students will learn about IEPs, ARDs, legal requirements, collaboration, instructional differentiation, cooperative learning, inclusion, and assessment techniques applicable for diverse learners in the general education classroom. This course is offered through eLearning at UT Dallas. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing. (3-0) S
BIS 4310 Co-op Education (3 semester credit hours) Students completing this course will integrate academic learning with their co-op work experience. To attain this goal, students will keep a journal of their workplace experience, maintain contact with the instructor, and prepare a written report that focuses on the accomplishments and insights gained through their co-op experience. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BIS 4V01 Special Topics (1-3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Y
BIS 4V02 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. An independent study course may be used in the Interdisciplinary Studies degree plan wherever appropriate. An independent study course involves an individual contract between the student and a faculty member, specifying what requirements the student will meet. This usually involves some combination of reading, research, papers, examinations, and meetings with the faculty member. To undertake an independent study, the student must arrange with an appropriate faculty member for supervision of a particular topic. For written papers, 10 pages are required for each hour of credit. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
BIS 4V04 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Students undertake a new learning experience at a faculty-supervised work situation in business, government, or social service agency, arts institution, or other setting appropriate to the student's concentration. Sites may be local, out of state, or abroad. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals in a specific field. Experience gained may also serve as a work credential after graduation. Course requirements include writing a journal and research paper connecting theory to practice. This course is open to all majors at UT Dallas. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S