CHIN 1301 Beginning Business Chinese I (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for students interested in Chinese conversation and/or those who engage in business-related travel in Chinese speaking societies. Students will gain linguistic knowledge with a focus on listening and speaking, as well as develop a broad understanding of the modern Chinese business environment. (3-0) Y
CHIN 1302 Beginning Business Chinese II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of CHIN 1301. Students will increase their familiarity with Chinese business practices, the Chinese language, and Chinese conversational skills. Prerequisite: CHIN 1301 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
CHIN 1311 Beginning Chinese I (3 semester credit hours) This course will integrate acquisition of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with study of Chinese culture and civilization. (3-0) Y
CHIN 1312 Beginning Chinese II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of Beginning Chinese I. It will integrate acquisition of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) with study of Chinese culture and civilization. Prerequisite: CHIN 1311 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
CHIN 2311 (CHIN 2311) Intermediate Chinese I (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of Beginning Chinese. It will include review and application of skills in listening comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. The course emphasizes conversation, vocabulary acquisition, reading, composition, and culture. Includes the study of Chinese culture and civilization. Prerequisite: CHIN 1312 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
CHIN 2312 (CHIN 2312) Intermediate Chinese II (3 semester credit hours) This course is a continuation of Intermediate Chinese I. It will include review and application of skills in listening comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. The course focuses on conversation, vocabulary acquisition, reading, and composition. A major course component will be an emphasis on Chinese culture and civilization. Prerequisite: CHIN 2311 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
CHIN 3365 Advanced Chinese I (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to help students to build continuous vocabulary, increase the understanding of Chinese culture, and augment speaking fluency. The course will cover reading comprehension, the discussion of literature, and conversation in business and professional contexts. Prerequisite: CHIN 2312 or instructor consent required. (3-0) S