MUSI 1306 (MUSI 1306) Understanding Music (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the elements and basic forms of music, with particular emphasis on the composer's creative process and the listener's participation. Methods of analytical and aesthetic appreciation will be applied to musical examples, with corollaries in literature, history, theater, and the visual arts. (3-0) Y
MUSI 1313 Fundamentals of Music (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the elements and organization of music, including analysis and discussion of representative works. Focuses on developing practical musical skills through oral, aural, and written experiences with rhythms, melodies, intervals, scales, chords, and music notation. (3-0) Y
MUSI 2113 Pep Band (1 semester credit hour) The UT Dallas Pep Band (or Spirit Band) is comprised of winds, brass and percussion. This performing group, in conjunction with Student Life and Student Activities, will provide music for a variety of events on campus throughout the year. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2120 Wind Ensemble I (1 semester credit hour) This course will introduce students to wind music in the European tradition. Through rehearsal, instruction, and practical assignments, students will prepare a selection of works to present for concerts. Students will demonstrate an understanding of the descriptive, interpretative, and evaluative elements of criticism in music in the works performed. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). Course can be taken only once a semester. Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 2127 University Choir (1 semester credit hour) A choir that combines UT Dallas students, faculty, staff, alumni, and singers from the community. Repertoire is selected from sacred and secular choral music from the Middle Ages to the twenty-first century. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). Course can be taken only once a semester. (0-3) S
MUSI 2311 Topics in Music (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to specialized topics in music. May include historical or cultural elements of music, a genre or composer, or digital aspects of music. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
MUSI 2315 Guitar I (3 semester credit hours) An introductory class in the basic skills in classical and finger-style guitar for both beginning and intermediate students. Course includes hand positions and posture, accurate tuning, music reading, and melodic, harmonic, and rhythmic exercises. (0-3) S
MUSI 2316 Guitar Ensemble I (3 semester credit hours) A beginning-level performing ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) Y
MUSI 2317 Piano I (3 semester credit hours) Basic piano technique and interpretive skills, suitable for both beginning pianists and students with some keyboard experience but little formal training. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2319 Digital Music I (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the concepts and techniques of digital music production. Topics may include midi sequencing, digital audio, and basic editing techniques. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) Y
MUSI 2322 Music in Western Civilization (3 semester credit hours) A broad survey of Western music from the Middle Ages to the twenty-first century, covering Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Romantic, and Modern styles. Develops listening skills and an understanding of diverse genres and places works in their social and cultural contexts. (3-0) Y
MUSI 2324 Instrumental Ensemble I (3 semester credit hours) May include orchestra, strings, winds, chamber music, etc. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2325 Vocal Instruction I (3 semester credit hours) A course in basic singing techniques and interpretive skills, suitable for both beginning singers and for students with singing experience but little formal training. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) S
MUSI 2326 Jazz Ensemble I (3 semester credit hours) A performing ensemble of approximately 24 players. Repertoire is selected from a broad range of jazz music. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) Y
MUSI 2328 Music Theory I (3 semester credit hours) Studies in music theory and analysis, keyboard harmony, ear training and sight-singing. (0-3) Y
MUSI 2V71 Independent Study in Music (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MUSI 3118 String Orchestra II (1 semester credit hour) Students will rehearse as an orchestra or in multiple ensembles to study and perform classical music of different periods. The orchestra will participate in a performance once during the semester (day and time TBA). May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). Course can be taken only once a semester. Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3120 Wind Ensemble II (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed for students who want to further their musical knowledge and skill as it relates to wind instruments. Through rehearsal, instruction, and practical assignments, students will prepare a selection of works to present for concerts. Students will demonstrate an intermediate understanding of the descriptive, interpretative, and evaluative elements of criticism in music in the works performed. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). Course can be taken only once a semester. Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3312 Advanced Orchestra/Chamber Music Ensemble I (3 semester credit hours) Provides performance opportunities for undergraduate instrumentalists, dancers, video artists and singers. Repertoire will range from duos and trios to larger ensembles in musical styles from medieval to contemporary. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 3316 Guitar Ensemble II (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for students who want to expand their musicianship skills in a performance ensemble. Intermediate skills such as sight reading (linear and chord), stylistic articulation and phrasing, and improvisation will be covered in this course. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3322 Music in Historical Context (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the development of music from ancient Greece to the twenty-first century. Topics may include specific periods or musical styles. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MUSI 3323 The Guitar: Medieval to Modern (3 semester credit hours) The study of guitars and the art of playing guitars in Europe and in the Americas. Allied instruments such as the lute, viheula, Baroque guitar, and the Romantic guitar will also be studied. Prerequisites: ARTS 1301 or MUSI 1306 or MUSI 2322 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3324 Jazz History: Roots to Swing (3 semester credit hours) The history of jazz music with a focus on early jazz and musical developments prior to bebop. Topics include jazz music and musicians prior to bebop and the identification of elements of jazz such as improvisation and song forms. Prerequisites: ARTS 1301 or MUSI 1306 or MUSI 2322 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3325 Jazz History: Modern Jazz since BeBop (3 semester credit hours) The history of jazz music with a focus on modern jazz and musical developments which occurred since the bebop era. Topics include jazz music and musicians since the bebop era and the identification of elements of jazz such as improvisation, song forms, instruments and instrumental techniques, swing feeling, and different jazz styles. Prerequisites: ARTS 1301 or MUSI 1306 or MUSI 2322 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MUSI 3328 Music Theory II (3 semester credit hours) Harmony and composition, analysis of representative works from the literature, keyboard harmony, ear-training, and sight-singing. Prerequisite: MUSI 2328 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3342 Advanced Topics in Music (3 semester credit hours) Topics may include theory and composition, a specific composer, or a genre such as guitar literature, new music or jazz. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: MUSI 1306 or MUSI 1313 or MUSI 2311 or MUSI 2322 or MUSI 2328 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MUSI 3380 Guitar II (3 semester credit hours) Course builds musicianship and classical guitar technique through coaching and ensemble performance. Repertoire includes music from the sixteenth century to present-day composers. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3381 Instrumental Ensemble II (3 semester credit hours) May include orchestra, winds, strings, chamber music, etc. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 3382 Vocal Instruction II (3 semester credit hours) Intermediate singing techniques and interpretive skills, focusing on fundamentals of correct breathing, tone production, style, interpretation, and diction. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 3384 Best of Broadway (3 semester credit hours) This course will focus on basic singing techniques and interpretive skills, and is recommended for students who have had previous vocal training or experience in performance. Instruction will concentrate on fundamentals of correct breathing, tone production, and diction in English. Students will learn the basics of staging and deportment, and will work on scenes from musical theater. Students are required to participate in a mandatory concert. May be repeated as topics vary (6 semester credit hours). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 3385 Chamber Singers I (3 semester credit hours) Chamber Singers are a performing ensemble of approximately 24 singers performing on a regular basis at the University and in the community. The repertoire for the ensemble will be selected from a broad range of chamber vocal literature, sacred and secular music from the Renaissance to the contemporary period. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 3386 Jazz Ensemble II (3 semester credit hours) A performing ensemble of approximately 24 players. Repertoire is selected from a broad range of jazz music. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3387 Jazz Improvisation and Keyboard Harmony (3 semester credit hours) Teaches techniques of jazz improvisation and keyboard harmony for instrumentalists and vocalists. Prerequisite: MUSI 2328 or instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 3388 Piano II (3 semester credit hours) Intermediate piano technique and interpretive skills for students continuing from Piano I or with prior training. The course focuses on repertoire building and performance of the works of major composers. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 3389 Digital Music II (3 semester credit hours) A project-based course incorporating advanced editing and signal processing techniques. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: MUSI 2319 or instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 4118 Advanced String Orchestra III (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed for students who want to expand their musicianship skills in a performance ensemble. Students will rehearse as an orchestra or in multiple ensembles to study and perform orchestral music of different periods. The orchestra will participate in at least one performance once during the semester. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours). Course can be taken only once a semester. Instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 4120 Wind Ensemble III (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed for students who want to advance their musical knowledge and skill as it relates to wind instruments. Through rehearsal, instruction, and practical assignments, students will prepare a selection of works to present at concerts. Students will demonstrate an advanced understanding of the descriptive, interpretative, and evaluative elements of criticism in music in the works performed. May be repeated for credit (8 semester credit hours maximum). Course can be taken only once a semester. Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4312 Advanced Orchestra/Chamber Music Ensemble II (3 semester credit hours) Provides performance opportunities for undergraduate instrumentalists, dancers, video artists and singers. Repertoire will range from duos and trios to larger ensembles in musical styles from medieval to contemporary. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 4316 Guitar Ensemble III (3 semester credit hours) This advanced performance ensemble will cover musical arrangements over a wide variety of styles, including jazz, rock, Latin, and classical. Students will master skills related to sight reading (liner and chord), stylistic articulation and phrasing, and improvisation. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4322 Vocal Instruction III (3 semester credit hours) Advanced singing techniques and interpretive skills, focusing on fundamentals of correct breathing, tone production, style, interpretation, and diction. Students will meet in master classes and work individually with the instructor. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4345 Music Performance III (3 semester credit hours) Technique and repertoire of a particular musical medium. May include piano, voice, guitar, strings, winds, or other instruments. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 4346 Instrumental Ensemble III (3 semester credit hours) May include Chamber Music Ensemble, Orchestra, Guitar Ensemble, or Jazz Ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 4347 Vocal Ensemble III (3 semester credit hours) May include Chamber Singers, Jazz Singers, or Vocal Ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 4348 Creating Music (3 semester credit hours) Theory, principles, and practice of music composition. Includes study of notation, musical forms and styles, and the development and performance of new music. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: MUSI 2328 or instructor consent required. (0-3) T
MUSI 4385 Chamber Singers II (3 semester credit hours) Chamber Singers II are a performing ensemble of approximately 24 singers with substantial choral experience, performing on a regular basis at the University and in the community, and often with instrumental and other choral ensembles. Some concerts may involve staging and memorization. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) S
MUSI 4386 Jazz Ensemble III (3 semester credit hours) A performing ensemble of approximately 24 players. Repertoire is selected from a broad range of advanced jazz music. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-3) Y
MUSI 4390 Senior Project in Music (3 semester credit hours) Intended for students conducting an independent project, such as a recital, composition(s), or written project in music history or theory. Signature of instructor on proposed project outline required. Instructor consent required. (0-3) R
MUSI 4V12 Advanced Performance I (1-3 semester credit hours) This applied music class will study the history, interpretation, and performance practice of chamber music. As is the nature of chamber music, musicians will perform in small groups performing in a variety of genres. Typical repertoire will include works by Mozart, Verdi, and Gershwin. This course will culminate with one or more public performances. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (8 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-[1-3]) R
MUSI 4V13 Advanced Performance II (1-3 semester credit hours) This applied music class is a continuation of the study of the history, interpretation, and performance practice of chamber music. Focusing on contemporary chamber music, musicians will play music in small groups performing in a variety of genres. This course will culminate with one or more public performances. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (8 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (0-[1-3]) R
MUSI 4V61 Individual Instruction in Vocal Performance (1-3 semester credit hours) Intermediate and advanced-level instruction in singing techniques and interpretive skills. Students must also be enrolled in a 3000 or 4000-level performance ensemble. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
MUSI 4V71 Independent Study in Music (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R