CRWT 2301 Introductory Creative Writing (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to creative writing, the course will investigate and instruct students in the elementary approach to the process of creating original prose, poetry, and/or dramatic format works. The class will focus on a minimum of two genres and will cover both experimental and traditional forms. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) S
CRWT 2V71 Independent Study in Creative Writing (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
CRWT 3307 Creating Short Stories (3 semester credit hours) A creative workshop on the art of the short story which both investigates the creative techniques and processes involved in writing short stories and also concentrates on a variety of experimental and traditional forms that combine the art of words with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 (3-0) S
CRWT 3308 Creating Nonfictions (3 semester credit hours) A creative workshop built on the aesthetic techniques and aesthetic processes used to create personal essays, biographies, and autobiographies as works of art. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301. (3-0) T
CRWT 3330 Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A creative workshop on the art of literary translation which investigates the creative techniques and critical analyses involved in translation. Assignments may include monolingual translation exercises, translation theory, or studies of translators. Emphasis is on the actual translation of literary texts into English. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) S
CRWT 3351 Creating Poetry (3 semester credit hours) A creative workshop on the art of poetry which investigates the creative techniques and processes involved in writing poems in various, often opposing, forms that combine the art of words with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 (3-0) Y
CRWT 4307 Creating Short Stories: Advanced (3 semester credit hours) An advanced workshop on the creation and theory of the short story that will focus both on structure and on creative techniques and creative process involved in writing sophisticated, challenging, and linguistically developed short stories. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 3307 (3-0) T
CRWT 4353 Creating Poetry: Advanced (3 semester credit hours) An advanced workshop on the creation, history, and theory of poetry that will focus on the creative techniques and the creative process involved in writing formalist, lyrical, free verse, and experimental poetry. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 3351. (3-0) R
CRWT 4354 Creating Scripts (3 semester credit hours) An advanced workshop on the aesthetics, art, and creation of play, movie, and television scripts which will focus on the creative techniques and the creative process involved not only in the creation of film, play, and television scripts, but also in the production of plays, films, and television episodes. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301. (3-0) Y
CRWT 4V71 Independent Study in Creative Writing (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R