GEOG 2302 (GEOL 1305) The Global Environment (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the physical aspects of the world's geography emphasizing the interrelationships between the earth and its climate, vegetations, soils, and landforms. Provides a global perspective on the physical environment and the interactions between global systems to produce regional differences. (Same as ENVR 2302 and GEOS 2302) (3-0) Y
GEOG 2303 People and Place: An Introduction to World Geographic Regions (3 semester credit hours) Provides an introduction to the human geography of the world by examining how key concepts of place and space can be used to understand the character and interactions of major regions of the world including Southwest Asia, Southeast Asia, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Middle America, the Caribbean, the Pacific World, North America, South America, and Sub-Saharan Africa. (3-0) Y
GEOG 3304 Principles of Geospatial Information Sciences (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the primary Geospatial Information Sciences (GIS) methods for manipulating, querying, analyzing, and visualizing spatial-based data. Topics include spatial data models, data acquisition and editing, cartography, and spatial analysis. This course is designed to provide a foundation for all other upper level GISC courses. (Same as GISC 3304 and GEOS 3304) (3-0) Y
GEOG 3331 Urban Growth and Structure (3 semester credit hours) Deals with the economic and spatial processes underlying urban growth and regional development, and with the structural and demographic characteristics of urban areas as well as the social and psychological dynamics of urban life. (3-0) T
GEOG 3357 Spatial Dimensions of Health and Disease (3 semester credit hours) Examines the spatial dimensions of health, disease and the public health and health care systems. Provides an introduction to spatial epidemiology and a bridge to the terminology of medical and health care professionals. (3-0) R
GEOG 3359 Human Migration and Mobility: Global Patterns (3 semester credit hours) Explores the nature, structure and geography of population flows, and their influence on evolution of human settlement patterns through the ages. Offers analysis of push and pull factors as reflections of socioeconomic conditions in various regions of the world, and investigates the impacts of globalization on migration and mobility. (3-0) Y
GEOG 3370 The Global Economy (3 semester credit hours) Considers the changing relationships of population, resources, and the economy; the transformation of classical spatial economics; and the processes producing increasing globalization. Particular attention is paid to technological change and to the dynamics of world trade and investment. This course is also recommended for students who are not economics majors. (3-0) T
GEOG 3372 Population and Development (3 semester credit hours) Examines the relations between population, development, and the environment. Essential components of demographic analysis lay the foundation for a critical evaluation of demographic transition theory. Other topics include public health, population structure and life chances, cultural differences and women's status, aging, environmental impacts, and population policy. (3-0) T
GEOG 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester credit hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. (Same as PA 3377) (3-0) T
GEOG 3382 Russia: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to Russian geography, economics, politics, history, culture and Russian-American relations. Explores characteristics of Russian society and its evolution. Investigates the rise of Russia to prominence, the Soviet legacy in present economic and social policies, and Russia's place in the global order. (3-0) Y
GEOG 4309 Urban Development (3 semester credit hours) Explores the emergence and spread of social, political and economic forces that propel urbanization, urban growth and urban decline in emerging and less developed nations. Focus is on understanding the challenges of urban development that present themselves in lower income societies, and on fostering appropriate interventions to address them by public, private and nonprofit organizations, including poverty reduction, educational reform, employment promotion, shelter improvement, and governance. (Same as IPEC 4309) (3-0) T
GEOG 4380 Spatial Concepts and Organization (3 semester credit hours) Examines the recurring patterns of physical objects and human beings on the Earth's surface, the flows or circulations among them, and the spatial concepts and theories which have been advanced to help understand and explain these spatial arrangements. Provides a fundamental understanding of spatial processes, concepts, and theories. (Same as GISC 4380) (3-0) Y
GEOG 4396 Selected Topics in Geography (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
GEOG 4V97 Independent Study in Geography (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
GEOG 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
GEOG 4V99 Senior Honors in Geography (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S