VPAS 2V71 Independent Study in Visual and Performing Art (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
VPAS 3300 Elements of Art and Performance (3 semester credit hours) An analysis of the elements of space, time, image, text, and gesture as they relate to art making in the various visual and performing arts. These elements will also serve as a starting point from which students will investigate notions of creativity, expression, and aesthetics in a workshop setting. This course explores what constitutes a work of art, and ways in which a work of art can be perceived and interpreted. VPAS 3300 should be taken prior to completing the first 12 hours of upper-division course work. Prerequisites: Completion of 050 core and School of Arts and Humanities major. (3-0) S
VPAS 3340 Writing in the Arts (3 semester credit hours) This writing-intensive course focuses on the writing styles and conventions associated with the creative and performing arts. Students will become familiar with approaches and methodologies in the creative and performing arts, learn to critique and review artistic endeavors, and grasp the basics of research. This course fulfills the advanced writing requirement for Visual and Performing Art majors. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 or equivalent. (3-0) Y
VPAS 4310 Entertainment Law (3 semester credit hours) The comprehensive study of the law and legal issues faced by people in the art and entertainment industry, including: music, live entertainment, choreography, television, film, book, and magazine publishing, radio, celebrity rights, and cyber law and the related topics of agents and managers, licensing, advertising, social media, financing, branding, digital media, video streaming on demand, digital music and radio, computer games, copyright fair use and other related fields. Prerequisites: (Completion of 050 core and RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
VPAS 4389 Theory and Practice of the Visual and Performing Arts (3 semester credit hours) This course explores advanced theory and artistic practice across various disciplines, expanding students' experiences in creating, analyzing, and interpreting visual and performing arts. Students will examine the work of artists and/or scholars, and they will be challenged to consider interdisciplinary contexts and to develop work in their chosen artistic and/or scholarly practice with knowledge of diverse fields. This course also considers pragmatic challenges and opportunities for working in the arts. Projects will lead to developing proposals for capstone projects. Prerequisites: VPAS 3340 and Senior standing in a Visual and Performing Arts major. (3-0) S
VPAS 4390 Senior Capstone (3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction in fulfillment of the senior capstone requirement. Student will complete a thesis or capstone project following School requirements. Prerequisites: VPAS 4389 and instructor consent required. (3-0) S
VPAS 4V71 Independent Study in Visual and Performing Art (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
VPAS 4V99 Senior Honors in Visual and Performing Art (1-3 semester credit hours) Intended for students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Signature of instructor and secondary reader on proposed project outline required. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R