MKT 6009 Marketing Internship (0 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. (0-0) S
MKT 6244 Digital Marketing Strategy (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. The course explores three distinct areas within marketing and sales namely, digital marketing, traditional sales prospecting, and executive sales organization and strategy. The continuing convergence of the digital marketing and sales funnels has created a strategic continuum from digital lead generation to digital sales. The course identifies the current composition of this digital continuum while providing opportunities to evaluate sales and marketing digital strategies. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
MKT 6301 (SYSM 6318) Marketing Management (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of marketing management methods, principles, and concepts, including product, pricing, promotion, and distribution decisions. Analytical techniques and tools such as segmentation, targeting, and positioning are introduced as key components of a more rigorous management science approach to marketing. The learning objective is to have students apply these methods, principles, and concepts to develop, evaluate, and implement effective strategic and tactical decisions in marketing. (3-0) S
MKT 6309 Marketing Data Analysis and Research (3 semester credit hours) Methods employed in market research and data analysis to understand consumer behavior, customer journeys, and markets so as to enable better decision-making. Topics include understanding different sources of data, survey design, experiments, and sampling plans. The course will cover the techniques used for market sizing estimation and forecasting. In addition, the course will cover the foundational concepts and techniques used in data visualization and "story-telling" for clients and management. Prerequisites or Corequisites: MKT 6301 and (BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6359 or OPRE 6301). (3-0) Y
MKT 6310 Consumer Behavior Science and Practice (3 semester credit hours) The course consists of an analytical exposition of the systematic perspectives of consumer behavior along with their practical marketing implications. This course will undertake a detailed study of the psychological, sociological, and behavioral findings, experiments, and scientific frameworks leading to insights into consumer decision-making. Topics will also include the analysis of the stages of the consumer decision-making model, individual and environmental determinants of consumer behavior, and the calibration of multi-attribute attitude models with their strategic and tactical impact on various aspects of marketing decision making. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6321 Interactive and Digital Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the theory and practice of interactive and digital marketing. Topics covered include: online-market research, consumer behavior, conversion metrics, and segmentation considerations, eCommerce, search and display advertising, audiences, search engine marketing, email, mobile, video, social networks, usability, and the Internet of Things. (3-0) T
MKT 6323 Database Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Techniques to analyze, interpret, and utilize marketing databases of customers to identify a firm's best customers, understanding their needs, and targeting communications and promotions to retain such customers. Topics include: handling, creating and reading datasets, LifeTime Value, RFM and response analysis. In addition, students will learn to use SAS software. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6329 New Product Development (3 semester credit hours) Development and introduction of new products. Topics covered include new product strategy, market definition, and entry strategies, growth and diffusion of new products and technologies, consumer measurement, product positioning, advertising, and product testing, pretest market forecasting, and test marketing. Students will also learn to use conjoint analyses and diffusion models to measure consumer preferences and market growth. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6330 Brand Management (3 semester credit hours) To study the role and philosophy of brand management in the strategic marketing process and the resulting effects on strategic and marketing decisions. Topics will also include the strategic brand building process, segmentation and positioning for building brands, brand information systems, building brand equity, measuring sources and outcomes of brand equity, understanding the brand audit process and the application of brand management using marketing principles. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6331 Building and Managing Professional Sales Organizations (3 semester credit hours) The focus of this course is on the development and management of a professional sales organization. The course will explore the different strategies needed for different markets (consumer, business, government, and global). While the course will examine the various training programs available, there will be relatively little emphasis on sales techniques (this is not a course to learn basic selling concepts). We examine issues related to building and managing the sales effort at various stages of the company and product lifecycle, hiring and training sales personnel, compensation and incentive plans, sales forecasting, addressing multiple product lines, multiple channels and multiple geographic regions, and developing strategic alliances. (3-0) T
MKT 6332 Advertising and Promotional Strategy (3 semester credit hours) The process of formulating promotional strategy with particular emphasis on advertising and sales promotions. Topics will also include behavioral theories of communication, budgeting, media selection and media planning, scheduling of advertisements, measurement of advertising effectiveness, creative strategy and implementation, and management of different types of sales promotions. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6334 Digital Sales Strategy (3 semester credit hours) The course explores three distinct areas within marketing and sales namely, digital marketing, traditional sales prospecting, and executive sales organization and strategy. The continuing convergence of the digital marketing and sales funnels has created a strategic continuum from digital lead generation to digital sales. The course identifies the current composition of this digital continuum while providing opportunities to evaluate sales and marketing digital strategies. The course will cover concepts including the difference between inbound and outbound digital marketing strategies, tracking CRM inquiries in the funnel, and lead scoring. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6336 Pricing Analytics (3 semester credit hours) The course covers techniques used to price goods and services based on customer analysis and software tools. Topics include value- in-use analysis and segmentation, bundling, price discrimination, product-line pricing, dynamic pricing over the product life cycle, pricing in channels, psychological and competitive pricing. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
MKT 6337 (BUAN 6337) Predictive Analytics Using SAS (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of the analytical techniques frequently used in marketing analytics. Students analyze data from real world datasets to make useful marketing decisions. These econometric methods are commonly employed in online marketing, the retail sector, and financial services. Students will acquire knowledge about the methods and software that are used to understand issues such as who the profitable segments/customers are, how to acquire them, and how to retain them. The tools can also be used to manage brand prices and promotions using grocery scanner data. Prerequisite: OPRE 6301 or BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6359. (3-0) Y
MKT 6339 Capstone Marketing Decision Making (3 semester credit hours) This course provides hands-on experience in marketing decision-making using analytical marketing methodologies and frameworks. As part of the course, students will run a comprehensive marketing simulation software where they manage a fictional firm as a team in a competitive market place. Teams make strategic and tactical decisions to compete with other firms for market share and profits. Students will be exposed to commonly encountered marketing decisions such as selecting target segments, positioning, product line extensions, pricing, promotions, advertising spending, and sales force allocation. Students will learn to integrate the latest marketing thinking with data and assumptions, to systematically evaluate tradeoffs and implement solutions, and avoid common marketing mistakes. Students will gain experience in developing and defending the business case for marketing decisions and measuring and evaluating the outcome of their choices. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6340 Marketing Projects (3 semester credit hours) Sponsored by local industries, these projects provide the students an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge gained to solve real world marketing problems. Students work in a team environment, interact with industry leaders, and gain industry specific knowledge. May be repeated for credits as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 or MKT 6309) and (BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6301). (0-3) T
MKT 6341 Marketing Automation and Campaign Management (3 semester credit hours) This course provides students with both theoretical, and practical knowledge of campaign management best practices. The course has hands-on software which covers database creation, email/SMS marketing automation, forecasting, account-based management (ABM), data hygiene, optimization, testing, retargeting, attribution, customer journey mapping. Analytical, direct marketing and decision-making techniques are an overarching component of the course. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6342 Marketing Customer Insights Development (3 semester credit hours) This course provides managers with a foundation in analysis and presentation techniques. Students will learn how to create and use data visualization, apply estimation techniques, solve problems by applying frameworks and extract insights from data. The art and technique of preparing and delivering executive level presentations will be emphasized. A significant component of the course will consist of critical thinking, problem-solving and decision making techniques using in customer insight development. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6343 Social Media Marketing and Insights (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to provide students with a theoretical foundation and working knowledge of social media strategies and tools used by marketing departments and agencies. Students learn best practices in social media marketing for brand awareness improvement, lead generation, customer relationship management, online reputation/crisis management, word-of-mouth campaign, influencer marketing, and digital IMC. The course also provides a strategic foundation for social media analytics in both B-C and B-B environments, including platform selection, content curation and development, and ROI measurement of social media interventions using various metrics. The course includes a hands-on component. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) R
MKT 6344 Digital Marketing Strategy (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. The course explores the business development process and sales funnels, digital marketing, digital and social media concepts, business development analytics as well as concepts including the difference between inbound and outbound digital marketing strategies. Corequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6345 Quantitative Marketing Decision-Making (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches graduate students how to make good marketing decisions using quantitative analysis. Students will use Excel or R for data analysis, but the focus is on making good recommendations for management. Students are expected to have a basic knowledge of statistics and PC proficiency (e.g., importing/exporting files). Topics will cover models used to make good decisions in the following areas: strategic marketing, segmentation, positioning, managing marketing mix, product management, advertising and communication, sales force management, retail location and management, and service management. Prerequisite: OPRE 6301 or BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6359. (3-0) Y
MKT 6347 Marketing Analytics Project (3 semester credit hours) Sponsored by local industries, this combination lecture and project provides students with an opportunity to apply relevant skills and knowledge needed to solve real-world marketing analytics and insights challenges. Students work in a team environment, interact with industry professionals, and gain industry-specific knowledge and software skills. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6359 or BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6301) and (BUAN 6337 or MKT 6337 or MKT 6353). (3-0) Y
MKT 6349 MarTech Ecosystem (3 semester credit hours) This course covers the essential concepts of how to build and leverage a customer-centric data ecosystem to deliver personalized and timely messages to the customers, with the goal of supporting brand awareness, brand building, up-sell and retention across multiple touch points. In addition, the course covers best practices on how to select and integrate external marketing partners to build the ideal MarTech that will allow the delivery of personalized messages through different technologies (including AI) and how to optimize the marketing spend and KPIs to evaluate success. The course will be a mix of lectures and industry expert guest speakers. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6350 Marketing Strategy and Game Theory Framework (3 semester credit hours) Students learn how firms develop their marketing strategy to compete effectively in different situations. Using game theory principles, they will learn to analyze competitive strategies and then apply these to situations involving new emerging markets, mature markets, and on the Internet. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
MKT 6352 Marketing Web Analytics and Insights (3 semester credit hours) This course covers essential and advanced techniques and best practices in web analytics such as the setup and implementation of funnels and segments, attribution, KPI's, conversion, and campaign tracking. Special emphasis is given to actionable business insights and recommendations. The course uses different web analytics platforms, some with transactional datasets. (3-0) Y
MKT 6353 Customer Analytics and Insights (3 semester credit hours) Techniques to analyze, interpret, and utilize marketing data sets for prospecting purposes and to identify and retain profitable customers. The course will focus on omnichannel data and techniques such as Life-Time Value, RFM, response analysis, and attribution. Additional emphasis on developing critical thinking skills and problem-solving techniques to find and present actionable insights to management. Prerequisite: OPRE 6301 or BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6359. (3-0) Y
MKT 6380 (ENTP 6380) Market Entry Strategies (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses the marketing challenges facing the entrepreneurial firm, with specific emphasis on the choice and implementation of an initial market entry strategy. This choice typically involves multiple decisions, each based on critical assumptions about customers, markets and competitors. Early validation of these key assumptions is an essential element of the strategic decision process. Topics include understanding the context and the customer, developing and validating the business concept, defining the product/service offering and customer value proposition, positioning, creating awareness, and developing and implementing the market entry strategy. Credit cannot be received for both courses, ENTP 6380 and MKT 6380. Prerequisite or Corequisite: ENTP 6370 or MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
MKT 6382 (ENTP 6382) Professional Selling I (3 semester credit hours) Examines the theory and practical application of the principles and art of professional selling. The course places special emphasis on mapping the sales process for new companies and new products. The course includes case studies and learning by doing live case instruction. This course also includes advanced concepts in sales such as major account acquisition, government markets, global markets, request for information, request for proposal, product line sales, adaptive product and service solutions, team selling, long sales cycles, prospecting and networking strategies, implementation and analysis of prospecting strategies, and sales management strategies for the early stage of the product lifecycle. (3-0) Y
MKT 6384 Advanced Marketing Web Analytics and Insights (3 semester credit hours) This course will help students master advanced elements of web analytics and transform them into a data wizard able to make highly informed business decisions based on analytics from web platforms (.com, mobile, app), marketing platforms, and the IoT. Students will learn how to leverage web analytics to build advanced statistical models aimed at optimizing your eCommerce platform performance and digital marketing strategy. Students will also learn how to integrate a web analytics platform with a visualization tool such as Tableau to build real-time dashboards on conversion funnel, marketing channels, and customer segments. In addition, the course will cover the fundamentals of A/B testing and its importance in today's organizations, including test design, measurement plan, data collection, and analysis & insights. Prerequisite: MKT 6352. (3-0) Y
MKT 6V98 Marketing Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MKT 6V99 Special Topics in Marketing (1-6 semester credit hours) Study of rapidly emerging or changing areas within marketing. The specific topic will fall under one of the following categories: advertising, branding, digital marketing, product management, sales, marketing management or marketing analytics and market research. The course may consist of participation in one or more major marketing competitions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: (MKT 6301 or MKT 6309) or instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y
MKT 7314 Marketing Models I (3 semester credit hours) Study of mathematical models used in solving marketing problems including brand switching, new product adoption, and competitive strategy models. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 7315 Marketing Models II (3 semester credit hours) Advanced study of mathematical models used in solving marketing problems including brand switching, new product adoption, and competitive strategy models. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 7316 Marketing Models III (3 semester credit hours) Study of mathematical and statistical models used in the analysis of markets and marketing problems including dynamic models of marketing mix, applications of econometric methods in marketing. Instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 7317 Marketing Models IV (3 semester credit hours) Advanced study of mathematical models used in the analysis of markets and marketing problems including the use of game theory and modeling uncertainty. Instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 7V12 Research Applications in Marketing (3-4 semester credit hours) Application of multivariate methods in statistics to marketing problems including discriminant analysis, logit/probit analysis, and other multivariate applications. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([3-4]-0) T