ED 3314 The American Public School (3 semester credit hours) A study of the nature, scope, and purposes of the public school, with emphasis on meeting the needs of the multicultural society of Texas. Field Experience hours in a public school will be required. Prerequisite: Completion of 45 semester credit hours of course work. (3-0) S
ED 3315 Children's Literature (3 semester credit hours) Examining literature that is age appropriate for elementary students. Literature from many cultures and writers will be included. Students will explore ways to incorporate a variety of literature in their classes and the national and state standards will be incorporated into the class. Prerequisite: HUMA 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) S
ED 3339 Educational Psychology for Teachers (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce the theoretical foundation underlying various teaching strategies and provide a framework for understanding student development. Emphasis will be on application of theories in actual teacher behavior. (3-0) S
ED 3340 Math Concepts for Teachers (3 semester credit hours) Class designed to teach prospective classroom teachers to analyze problem situations, create solution strategies, solve problems, and justify his/her thinking; students will construct concepts of number, patterns, geometry, measurement, probability, and statistics through the use of exploration and investigation. Prerequisite: MATH 1306 or MATH 1314. (3-0) S
ED 3342 Classroom Management Grades EC - 6 (3 semester credit hours) Principles of teaching, classroom management and organization, and designing instruction and assessment for elementary/middle schools. Emphasis will be given to understanding the teaching environment, understanding learners, and enhancing student achievement. The domains and competencies for the Professional Development TExES are examined. Successful completion of 30 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. May only be taken the semester prior to student/clinical teaching. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 3345 Art, Music, and Physical Development Grades EC - 6 (3 semester credit hours) Principles and foundations for developing critical thinking and motor skills through art, music, and organized movement. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. (3-0) S
ED 3370 Curriculum and Instruction in Mathematics and Computer Science (3 semester credit hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in the mathematical sciences. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 3371 Curriculum and Instruction in the Natural Sciences (3 semester credit hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in the natural sciences. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required (3-0) S
ED 3380 Curriculum and Instruction in English (3 semester credit hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in English. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 3382 Curriculum and Instruction in Social Studies (3 semester credit hours) Curriculum design and methods of instruction in history. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4343 Science Methods for Grades EC - 6 (3 semester credit hours) Subject matter and scope and sequence organization for an integrated science program in the elementary/middle school based on national and Texas curricula and assessment standards. Hands-on activities are included. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4344 Mathematics Methods for Elementary Teachers (3 semester credit hours) Subject matter and scope and sequence organization for teaching mathematics in the elementary/middle school, based on national and Texas curricula and assessment standards. Manipulatives and visuals are used to help students master basic mathematics principles and develop critical thinking skills. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4345 Social Studies Methods for Grades EC - 6 (3 semester credit hours) Subject matter and scope and sequence organization for teaching social studies in the elementary/middle school, based on national and Texas curricula and assessment standards. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4351 ESL for K-12 Teachers (3 semester credit hours) Analysis of social and linguistic factors associated with second language learners and the acquisition of the English language. This course deals with the techniques, methods, and strategies for the instruction and assessment of English language learners. (3-0) S
ED 4352 Reading I: Learning to Read (3 semester credit hours) A study of the reading process and theories about teaching reading, understanding the sequential development of reading programs and methods for grouping students and subject matter. This course is required for all students seeking Generalist EC-6 or ELAR 4-8 certification. (3-0) S
ED 4353 Reading in Secondary Content (3 semester credit hours) Focuses on using reading and writing in non-language related courses. Required for students seeking certification for Grades 4-8 Generalist and all secondary content teaching fields. (3-0) S
ED 4357 Diagnostic Reading (3 semester credit hours) Examines a variety of assessment and evaluation strategies that are appropriate for the classroom teacher - both formal and informal procedures are introduced. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Prerequisites: ED 4352 and ED 4363 and department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4358 Chess I: Using Chess in Schools (3 semester credit hours) Using chess to teach critical thinking, math, and reading skills in the elementary and secondary classrooms. This course is also appropriate for chess instructors who wish to incorporate additional academic and humanistic goals into their programs. No previous knowledge of chess is required. This course is offered through eLearning at UT Dallas. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
ED 4359 Chess II: Institutional and Cultural Contexts of Chess (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the roles of chess in history and in contemporary culture and analysis of chess in education. As a student in this program, your culminating paper would either propose an improvement of an existing chess program, develop a new chess program, or analyze issues in chess and education. No prior knowledge of chess is required. This course is offered through UT Dallas eLearning. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
ED 4361 Classroom Management Secondary (3 semester credit hours) A systematic approach to managing the total classroom environment. Emphasis will be given to practical applications of the research in instructional design, instructional management, and strategies in behavioral management. The domains and competencies for the Pedagogy and Professional Development TExES are examined. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. May only be taken the semester prior to student/clinical teaching. Successful completion of 30 clock hours of field experience is required and a prerequisite for a grade in this course. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4363 Reading II/ELAR Methods (3 semester credit hours) Focuses on developing and learning methods to teach reading, writing, listening, language arts, speaking and thinking for Grades EC-6. Instructional strategies, thematic teaching, study skills, and effective uses for text, media, and other resources will be utilized. This course is required for all students seeking Generalist EC-6 certification. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Prerequisite: ED 4352 and department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4372 Educational Technology (3 semester credit hours) Emphasis is placed on the use of technology to support the teaching and learning process. Information about specific instructional applications is presented to provide concrete examples of principles and procedures. Focuses on electronic instructional media, multimedia, telecommunications, multi-user networks, and their real world applications to the secondary classroom. This course is offered through eLearning at UT Dallas. Must be officially admitted to teacher certification program. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Department consent required. (3-0) S
ED 4693 Student Teaching - Elementary (6 semester credit hours) Observation and supervised teaching in the elementary school. Requires full-time attendance in schools for 14 weeks. Must be admitted to student teaching. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Additional fee attached to course. Department consent required. (6-0) S
ED 4694 Student Teaching Secondary (6 semester credit hours) Observation and supervised teaching in a single teaching field. Requires full time attendance in schools for 14 weeks. Must be admitted to student teaching. Must register in Teacher Development Center. Additional fee attached to course. Department consent required. (6-0) S
ED 4V90 Independent Study in Education (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
ED 4V95 Special Topics in Education (1-9 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) Y