FILM 1303 Transnational Film and Video (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to films and videos as forms of modern human cultural expression and understanding. A wide range of films and videos about humans and their diverse experiences around the globe will be explored. Themes may include love, loss, memory, migration, history, nation, and globalization. (3-0) R
FILM 2332 Understanding Film (3 semester credit hours) Explores the history and stylistic elements of cinema as a mass medium and an art form. The course analyzes visual language and film style, cinematic codes, and the ways that films can embody or criticize popular ideas and attitudes. Emphasis is on film analysis, film in relation to the other arts and mass media, films as artifacts, and understanding the ways that films are put together and how they function expressively. (3-0) S
FILM 2V71 Independent Study in Film (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
FILM 3321 Film in Historical Context (3 semester credit hours) Historical studies of major films, genres, and movements from the silent era to the present. Topics may include the history of documentary, fiction, or experimental film and video; or film genres such as the musical, the horror film, or the melodrama viewed in their historical context. Courses on film movements focus on a national cinema at a specific time (such as German Expressionism, Soviet Socialist Realism, Italian Neo-Realism, the French New Wave, or film noir). May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: FILM 2332 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
FILM 3325 Film Authorship (3 semester credit hours) Film history studied through one or more directors per course, from their earliest to their final or most recent films. Lectures, discussions, and screenings are designed to explore films as part of cultural history, cinema and media history, and the history of criticism, including theories about the nature of authorship in relation to film. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: FILM 2332 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
FILM 3342 Topics in Film (3 semester credit hours) Explores the changing nature, practices, and principles of film. Topics may focus on the varied nature of the collaborative filmmaking process, the rise of cinema as a public entertainment, thematic issues, or relationships between film and social change. Sections may be devoted to independent cinema, contemporary international cinema, or aspects of filmmaking such as scriptwriting. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: FILM 2332 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
FILM 4V71 Independent Study in Film (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R