LATS 2V71 Independent Study in Latin American Studies (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of the instructor and proposed reading list/final project description required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
LATS 3301 Latin American Literature (3 semester credit hours) An examination of Latin American literature and its relation to art, politics, culture, and thought. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (Latin American Studies major or minor) and completion of 040 core. (3-0) Y
LATS 3302 Latin American Film (3 semester credit hours) An examination of Latin American film and its relation to art, politics, culture, and thought. Prerequisite: Latin American Studies major or minor. (3-0) R
LATS 3303 Latin Social Dance (3 semester credit hours) Students will study different forms of Latin Dance: Salsa, Cha-Cha, Merengue, and Bachata through daily dance classes. Students will connect to the History of Latin Social Dance through classroom teaching and online viewing and critiquing of live and video dance performances, readings, and exploration of the cultural and creative history as a living embodiment of culture and ourselves. This class is for students who are interested in moving their bodies to the Latin beats with rhythmically interesting music. Male and female beginning movers/dancers/people or anyone interested in the sights, sounds, movements, and history of Latin Social Dance. No dance experience required. (Same as DANC 3336) (0-3) R
LATS 4V71 Independent Study in Latin American Studies (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Signature of the instructor and proposed reading list/final project description required. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
LATS 4V99 Senior Honors in Latin American Studies (1-3 semester credit hours) Intended for students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Signature of the instructor and secondary reader on proposed project outline required. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R