SOC 5V91 Independent Study in Applied Sociology (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
SOC 5V92 Internship in Applied Sociology (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for a student's internship. Internships must be related to the student's course work. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
SOC 6312 (PPPE 6312) Social-Economic Theories (3 semester credit hours) A critical analysis of early and modern social and economic theories. Select classical works of Smith, Marx, and Weber are explored, as they pertain to Western capitalist development, along with more contemporary perspectives related to the accumulation and exchange value of human, social and cultural capital. Emphasis is placed on understanding how social relations and social institutions influence economic exchanges. (3-0) T
SOC 6315 (PA 6315) Evaluating Program and Organizational Performance (3 semester credit hours) Techniques and analytical methods of assessing governmental and nonprofit program and policy success. Emphasis is placed on strategies for impact assessment, measuring efficiency, examining short-term and long-term consequences, identifying both intended and unintended impacts, and the social, political and ethical context of evaluation. (3-0) T
SOC 6316 (PA 6314) Policy Analysis (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to policy analysis, exploring approaches and providing tools to analyze contemporary policy questions at various levels of governance. (3-0) R
SOC 6335 (PA 6335) Resource Development for Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course examines sources of revenue for nonprofit organizations. Specific topics include fundraising, grant writing, and donor dynamics. The course is designed to prepare the student to work effectively as a member of a fundraising team - either as staff or volunteer board member. (3-0) R
SOC 6340 (PPPE 6340) Domestic Social Policy (3 semester credit hours) Overview of governmental and non-governmental programs, policies, and institutions dealing with those who cannot function self-sufficiently within the American market economy, including low-income families, the elderly, the unemployed, and people with disabilities. Analyzes how social policy in the United States reflects the political economy and culture, as well as social and demographic trends. (3-0) Y
SOC 6341 (ECON 6371) Urban Economics (3 semester credit hours) Presents methods and models for understanding urban growth and development processes. Topics include analysis of urban growth, land use patterns, transportation and local public good delivery systems. Welfare consequences of various urban policy options are explored. (3-0) R
SOC 6344 Gender and Policy (3 semester credit hours) Explores issues of gender and public policy in the U.S. Topics include poverty, politics, and workplace and family issues. (3-0) R
SOC 6347 Religion in Public Life (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the engagement of religion in public life, specifically ways in which religious institutions, their beliefs, and moral values help to shape public institutions and their policies. Attention is directed to religion and policy in the economy/workforce, government/legislation, education/science, healthcare, and other social institutions. (3-0) R
SOC 6348 Immigration Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines immigration policy implemented in the main public institutions in the U.S. - governance (immigration law and constitutional rights), the economy (labor and the workforce), education (eligibility and financial support), and healthcare (eligibility and funding) - as policy relates to admission and citizenship, government services, regulation of immigrant labor, pursuit of education credentials, access to healthcare, and other issues. The course also examines the influence of race/ethnicity, class, gender, sexual orientation, political ideology, and religion on the shaping and implementation of immigration policy. (3-0) R
SOC 6350 (PPPE 6350) Social Stratification (3 semester credit hours) This seminar will examine the major theories and lines of research on social stratification, defined as the hierarchical ranking of groups based on the unequal distribution of societal resources and positions. Focusing primarily on the U.S. class system, topics covered include: class reproduction and mobility, the educational system and policy, empirical definitions, the implications of race and gender for social class, and forms of legitimation. (3-0) Y
SOC 6355 Race and Ethnic Relations (3 semester credit hours) Considers historical and contemporary constructions of race and ethnicity. Issues include the formation and maintenance of individual and group identity, racialized patterns of stratification, intergroup conflict, and the causes and consequences of public policy. (3-0) R
SOC 6356 (PPPE 6356) Health and Illness (3 semester credit hours) A review of medical sociology and related fields, including social epidemiology and the social demography of health and illness; health and illness behavior; health institutions and professions; economic factors and trends in health care; and health policies and programs. (3-0) R
SOC 6357 (PPPE 6341) Health Policy (3 semester credit hours) The history and political economy of the U.S. health care system and a review of major governmental programs to expand access to appropriate services, control rising costs, ensure the quality of care, and promote health through prevention. Analysis of current and recent proposals for reform of health care policy. (3-0) R
SOC 6361 Education in U.S. Society (3 semester credit hours) This course will examine the institution of education, examining the ways in which schools are embedded within social, historical, and cultural contexts. Attention will also be given to the complex relationships between educational institutions and families, the communities they serve, and their role in shaping processes of socialization and stratification. (3-0) Y
SOC 6370 Special Topics in Applied Sociology (3 semester credit hours) Topics may include education policy, global health, and environmental policy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
SOC 6381 (PA 6382) Nonprofit Management (3 semester credit hours) This course examines issues, strategies, and techniques related to executive leadership and management in nonprofit organizations. (3-0) R
SOC 6384 (PA 6384) Seminar in Urban Policy (3 semester credit hours) This seminar surveys key urban policy challenges and opportunities faced by U.S. cities. The course will focus on critical analysis of a range of topics including the continuing viability of cities in the context of current economic and demographic dynamics, fiscal stress, governance, economic development, transportation, poverty and race/ethnicity, drugs, homelessness, federal urban policy, and survival strategies for declining cities. (3-0) R
SOC 6386 (PA 6386) Diversity Management (3 semester credit hours) This course provides the skills and knowledge necessary to manage increasingly diverse workforces in the public and nonprofit sectors. A significant portion of the course will focus on diversity in the workplace, with particular attention given to discrimination, strategies for developing equitable public sector organizations, and the need for cultural competency among public administrators. (3-0) T
SOC 6V92 Research Workshop in Applied Sociology (3-6 semester credit hours) Students join a faculty member in a group research project. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([3-6]-0) R
SOC 6V98 Master's Thesis (3-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision of a student's master's thesis research. Completion of all, or concurrent enrollment in, major requirements. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Program Coordinator consent required. ([3-6]-0) R