IMS 6091 Regional Area Studies: Latin America (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Latin America and their place in the world economy. Department consent required. May be repeated (2 times maximum). (3-0) Y
IMS 6092 Regional Area Studies: Western Europe (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Western Europe and their place in the world economy. (3-0) Y
IMS 6093 Regional Area Studies: Asia (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Asia and their place in the world economy. (3-0) Y
IMS 6094 Regional Area Studies: Africa (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Africa and their place in the world economy. Department consent required. May be repeated (2 times maximum). (3-0) Y
IMS 6095 Regional Area Studies: North America (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in North America and their place in the world economy. (3-0) Y
IMS 6096 Regional Area Studies: Eastern Europe (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in North America and their place in the world economy. (3-0) Y
IMS 6097 Regional Area Studies (0 semester credit hours) Regional history of economic development, culture, and overview of firms conducting businesses globally and their place in the world economy. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated two times as topics vary. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6151 Global Business Ethics (1 semester credit hour) This course examines practical issues in global business ethics, including compliance requirements and their application, effective reactions to global ethical dilemmas and best practices in global and multicultural environments. (1-0) Y
IMS 6204 Global Business (2 semester credit hours) Provides an introduction to the fundamental concepts of international business, covering macro-level environmental factors that affect international business today. Topics include globalization, country environments, culture, international trade and investment, regional economic integration, and the global monetary system. Credit cannot be received for both courses, IMS 6204 and IMS 6304. May not be used to fulfill degree requirements in MS International Management Studies. (2-0) S
IMS 6205 Export Market Planning (2 semester credit hours) A combination of lectures on the foundations of export marketing, combined with classroom presentations by experts from the North Texas District Export Council on their work in the global marketplace. Covers choosing an exportable product and market, and adapting marketing mix variables in the context of export marketing. Students prepare and present a market entry report, and are awarded a certificate from the US Department of Commerce upon completion. (2-0) R
IMS 6212 Global Communication and Negotiations (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course focuses on understanding national culture and cultural issues in international business. It emphasizes the importance of managing cultural differences to enhance communication, negotiation, leadership, and group dynamics in an international work environment. (2-0) Y
IMS 6213 Global Politics in Business (2 semester credit hours) Politics is a common challenge for multinational companies. This course will provide a comprehensive study of global business and politics. It examines regulatory compliance, ideology, government policies, ethical conflicts, environmental and resource issues at a global level. (2-0) Y
IMS 6214 Global Mergers and Acquisitions (2 semester credit hours) This course will examine mergers and acquisitions in the global scale, including identifying targets; valuing the targets; negotiating the deals, and structuring the post-deal integration. It will also cover the legal, organizational and strategic issues that impact the acquisition process. (2-0) Y
IMS 6250 Executive Study Trip - Mexico (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course focuses on NAFTA and the business, political, and cultural issues related to conducting business in Mexico. It involves a trip to an important business center where students visit companies, participate in classes at Mexican universities, and have cultural experiences pertinent to business decision-making and management in Mexico. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
IMS 6252 International Business Management (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Considers the role of general managers (CEO and country/regional managers) in multi-national companies and the working relationship of subsidiary and home offices in such companies. Topics include business strategies, control/cooperative systems, the dynamics of addressing local and global concerns, and knowledge transfer. Changes brought about by modern information technology are also considered. (2-0) Y
IMS 6253 Cross-Cultural Management (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education. This course focuses on understanding national culture and cultural issues in international business. It emphasizes the importance of managing regional cultural differences to enhance communication, negotiation, leadership, and group dynamics in an international or global work environment. Prerequisite: OB 6301. (2-0) Y
IMS 6300 The Multinational Firm (3 semester credit hours) Examines how multinational firms adapt to the international environment. Topics include the management of human resources, finance and the supply chain within the multinational firm. Special attention is given to the strategy and structure of multinational operations. Prerequisite: IMS 6304. (3-0) Y
IMS 6302 Legal Aspects of International Business Transactions (3 semester credit hours) The legal environment and framework of international business, legal aspects and implications of international trade and the establishment and operation of business abroad, moving goods across national borders, immigration, joint ventures, licensing, setting up and financing operations abroad, negotiating an international deal, resolving disputes, international corruption, bribery and crime. Prerequisite: IMS 6304 or IMS 6204. (3-0) T
IMS 6304 International Business Management (3 semester credit hours) The course analyzes global business environments, discusses international business operations in various markets of the world, and examines various theories that explain how the international trade and direct investment practices evolve. The course utilizes various cases to help students gain knowledge and learn necessary skills to evaluate and manage the challenges and opportunities businesses face in diverse global markets. Credit cannot be received for both courses, IMS 6204 and IMS 6304. Prerequisite: Non-MBA major. (3-0) S
IMS 6310 International Marketing (3 semester credit hours) This course aims at preparing students to appreciate the international marketing by understanding both theoretical and practical issues involved. This course covers the fundamentals and evolution of international marketing, the environment of international marketing, foreign entry methods, evaluation of market potential, management of international marketing mix, consumer behavior and international strategic marketing planning. Students will also learn the reasons why international marketing is important for success in international business and for finding personal career opportunities. (3-0) Y
IMS 6312 International Advertising (3 semester credit hours) This course will aim at preparing the students to understand theoretical and practical aspects of international advertising within the context of global marketing communications. The basic principles of the course will include global versus local creative strategies and executions, international media opportunities, and global research methods. It will aim to equip the students with an understanding of the basic principles of advertising, including the various and differing cultural, economic and political factors that impact international marketing communications with a view to get employment in international advertising. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
IMS 6314 Global E-Business Marketing (3 semester credit hours) This course aims at preparing the students for managing global e-business activities within the framework of accelerated trends for globalization. International aspects of e-business have become more important due to the variables in legal and regulatory regimes, the state of the communications infrastructure and differences in culture; including language and perception of the benefits of the Internet. Students will be prepared to understand the worldwide unevenness in the adoption and use of e-business globally and develop ability to customize and personalize the Internet experience to use at their employment in the field. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
IMS 6320 International Corporate Finance (3 semester credit hours) Financial policies and practices of companies involved in multinational operations. The course considers management of working capital and permanent assets. Investment practices and capital budgeting for the global firm. IMS 6320 may not be used to fulfill degree requirements for MS in Finance. Credit cannot be received for both courses, FIN 6366 and IMS 6320. Prerequisite: FIN 6301. (3-0) Y
IMS 6340 Managing Strategy and People in International Techno-Creative Industries (3 semester credit hours) "Techno-Creative" industries (game design, animation and social media) have become important global industries. This course will apply principles from strategic management and international HRM to prepare professional to work in and "add value" in these industries. Game design, and related industries will be used in this course as a platform for hands on learning. Case studies, speakers and projects will be used to bring to life principles of strategy and human resource management. No prior interest or experience in game design or related industries is required, but will be welcome. (3-0) Y
IMS 6341 International Human Resource Management (3 semester credit hours) This course will focus on the impact of globalization on managing international human resources. The central aim of this course is to identify the challenges of managing diverse manpower in an international set up and to teach students how to effectively manage diverse manpower in rapidly changing global business environments. Students will learn how to develop an effective human resource management strategy by incorporating cultural, legal and social aspects of a host country. The course also introduces comparative HR practices in the process of expatriates' selection, training and managing of cultural shocks and reverse cultural shocks. (3-0) Y
IMS 6343 Sustainability in a Global Business Environment (3 semester credit hours) This course is expected to enhance global awareness and discovery of how local businesses and organizations can create sustainable value for people and planet. This course will cover basic concepts in business sustainability and organizational management, such as leadership, social capital, and organizational design. Students will have a better understanding of the opportunities and challenges of businesses in a diverse environment challenged by globalization pressures. The course will be offered as part of an interdisciplinary field study program. (3-0) Y
IMS 6345 Global Leadership (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course challenges students to address ethics issues across multiple cultures and to leverage their leadership skills to implement strategy and to lead and execute across global markets. Prerequisites: BPS 6310 and IMS 6253. (3-0) Y
IMS 6350 Management Consulting and Research (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This is a course taken under the supervision of an assigned faculty member. The student conducts a field consulting or research project on a topic that is approved and supervised by the faculty sponsor. The course is intended to develop deep knowledge and skill in an area that the student believes will enhance his or her job performance and that is academically rigorous. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6351 Executive International Study Trip - EMBA (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course consists of a ten day international trip. The destinations are chosen to relate to an international emphasis and its themes of managing for change, the strategic perspective, and leadership effectiveness. While abroad, participants visit and hear presentations from local university faculty, local business executives, and expert panels. Participants are also expected to identify important cultural variables that impact business decision making and management in the countries visited. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6354 Global Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course promotes an appreciation and understanding of theoretical and practical issues involved in marketing products and services in the international context. This course covers the fundamentals and evolution of international marketing, the environment of international marketing, foreign entry methods, evaluation of market potential, management of international marketing mix, consumer behavior and international strategic marketing planning. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
IMS 6355 Global Communications and Negotiations (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course focuses on understanding national culture and cultural issues in international business. It emphasizes the importance of managing cultural differences to enhance communication, negotiation, leadership, and group dynamics in an international work environment. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6360 International Strategic Management (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the strategic challenges that multinational firms face. Issues such as managing across national boundaries, responding to environmental challenges, managing international joint ventures and strategic alliances, managing headquarters-subsidiary relationships, and developing global capabilities will be discussed. (3-0) Y
IMS 6363 Regional Area Studies (3 semester credit hours) This course enriches students' exposure to global business environments by visiting international companies, higher education institutions, and cultural sites in a specific county/region in the world. Students will gain firsthand knowledge about how companies manage their businesses and their place in the world economy while learning and analyzing their specific challenges, opportunities, and benefits of conducting businesses globally. Students will participate in pre-trip class sessions to prepare for the international experience and also post-trip class sessions to discuss their findings and present their papers. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6365 Cross-Culture Communication and Management (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on understanding national culture and cultural issues in international business. It emphasizes the importance of managing cultural differences to enhance communication, negotiation, leadership, and group dynamics in an international work environment. Further, the course describes methods to develop effective selection and training programs for international assignments. (3-0) Y
IMS 6370 Seminar in International Operations Management (3 semester credit hours) One of two capstone courses designed around a study tour to an international location where students attend courses at a local university with local students, interact with managers from local companies regarding business practices, and study the culture of the country they are visiting. Prerequisites: ACCT 6301 and FIN 6301 and MKT 6301 and OPRE 6362 and department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6371 Seminar in International Strategic Management (3 semester credit hours) One of two capstone courses designed around a study tour to an international location where students attend courses at a local university with local students, interact with managers from local companies regarding business practices, and study the culture of the country they are visiting. Prerequisites: ACCT 6301 and FIN 6301 and MKT 6301 and OPRE 6362 and department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6V91 Regional Area Studies: Latin America (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Latin America and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V92 Regional Area Studies: Western Europe (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Western Europe and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V93 Regional Area Studies: Asia (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Asia and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V94 Regional Area Studies: Africa (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Africa and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V95 Regional Area Studies: North America (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in North America and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V96 Regional Area Studies: Eastern Europe (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Eastern Europe and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V98 International Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and JSOM Internship Coordinator consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
IMS 6V99 Special Topics in International Management Studies (1-6 semester credit hours) May be lecture, readings, or individualized study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
IMS 7301 International Business (3 semester credit hours) Current theories in international business, and the formal and informal institutions affecting international business. (3-0) Y
IMS 8V40 Seminar in International Business (2, 3 or 6 semester credit hours) Discussion of selected concepts and theories in international business. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). ([2, 3, or 6]-0) T
IMS 8V60 Readings in International Business (2, 3 or 6 semester credit hours) Investigation into the literature of topical areas in international business. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, or 6]-0) T
IMS 8V80 Research Series in International Business (2, 3 or 6 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, or 6]-0) T
IMS 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S