ENGY 6330 Energy Law and Contracts (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an introductory overview of U.S. and international energy laws that govern oil, natural gas, coal, nuclear, renewable energy, and electric generation. The course covers the history of energy regulation and explores current laws governing the use, production, and transmission of energy sources, as well as environmental regulations. (3-0) S
ENGY 6331 Capstone Project in Energy (3 semester credit hours) Capstone projects are experiential learnings sponsored by local industries and provide the students an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge gained in core courses to solve real world challenging problems or simulated projects in the area of energy management. Students work in a team environment, interact with industry leaders and gain some industry specific knowledge. Prerequisites: FIN 6335 and FIN 6336 and MECO 6318 and OPRE 6389 and (MAS 6102 or MBA major). (3-0) Y
ENGY 6332 Energy and Sustainability (3 semester credit hours) The energy industry is undergoing a transition with more consumers and businesses seeking ways to reduce their carbon footprint and more sustainable ways of meeting their energy needs. This course will discuss the major shifts in the global energy industry and its impact on foreign and domestic energy policy, the environment, and corporate sustainability initiatives. Students will be able to evaluate existing challenges to increase sustainability efforts and identify opportunities to increase sustainability in energy use and economic growth. (3-0) Y
ENGY 6336 (FIN 6336) Energy Accounting and Taxation (3 semester credit hours) This course explores and discusses the special accounting rules for the energy industries and their special tax treatment. Prerequisite: ACCT 6301 or ACCT 6305. (3-0) T
ENGY 6V98 Energy Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and JSOM Internship Coordinator consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
ENGY 6V99 Special Topics in Energy Management (1-6 semester credit hours) May be lecture, readings, or individualized study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S