HMGT 6009 Healthcare Internship (0 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. (0-0) S
HMGT 6311 Healthcare Financial and Operations Accounting (3 semester credit hours) This course helps students critically evaluate financial decisions that reduce risk and create economic value. Using hospital and physician group practice data, participants learn how to analyze and interpret healthcare financial statements, evaluate investment decisions that create economic value, financially evaluate a proposed healthcare acquisition, partnership or joint venture, ascertain the worth of a medical practice or healthcare organization, and review internal controls. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6320 The American Healthcare System (3 semester credit hours) Examines the structure, financing and operation of the US healthcare industry. It analyzes how priorities are established, how services are organized and delivered, factors that influence the cost, quality and availability of healthcare, and opposing positions on the future of healthcare reform. (3-0) T
HMGT 6321 Strategic Leadership of Healthcare Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Explores how healthcare organizations can create sustainable competitive advantage in a volatile, reimbursement driven industry. Topics include external and internal environmental analysis, strategy formulation, organizational design and control, and the impact of mergers and alliances on industry performance. Healthcare case studies are used to illustrate key concepts. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320 or program director consent required. (3-0) S
HMGT 6322 Healthcare Cost Management and Control (3 semester credit hours) Examines how healthcare organizations allocate and report costs and use that information for managerial decision-making. Additional topics include how activity based costing can be used to more accurately determine the true cost of medical services and the use of the balanced scorecard to manage the conflicting imperatives of controlling costs and improving care. (3-0) T
HMGT 6323 (MIS 6317) Healthcare Informatics (3 semester credit hours) Examines the unique challenges of clinical and patient care delivery in the healthcare industry, including the role of data management, emerging data standards and information technology in improving the quality and cost associated with healthcare. The focus of the course will be on healthcare IT including issues related to governance, data integration, and selection and management of healthcare IT. Credit cannot be received for both courses, HMGT 6323 and MIS 6317. (3-0) T
HMGT 6324 (MECO 6352 and OB 6332 and SYSM 6313) Healthcare Negotiation and Dispute Resolution (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the theories, processes, and practical techniques of negotiation so that students can successfully negotiate and resolve disputes in a variety of situations including interpersonal, group, and international settings. Emphasis is placed on understanding influence and conflict resolution strategies; identifying interests, issues, and positions of the parties involved; analyzing co-negotiators, their negotiation styles, and the negotiation situations; and managing the dynamics associated with most negotiations. Practical skills are developed through the use of simulations and exercises. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6325 (OPRE 6325) Healthcare Operations Management (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the Healthcare Supply Chain, in terms of its strategic management, operations, challenges, and overall costs. Topics include importance of delivery of care, Healthcare supply chain management processes, sourcing relationships, inventory, delivery, and cost management. Relevant case studies will be used throughout the course providing additional insights. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6327 (MIS 6381) Electronic Health Records Applications (3 semester credit hours) An interactive, experiential course in which students will utilize hands-on, practice-oriented opportunities to learn the core components of clinical information systems used by major healthcare systems in the United States. The course will include a lab-based component in which students will follow guided exercises and assignments using a leading EMR software as well as case analyses. Prerequisite or Corequisite: HMGT 6323. (3-0) T
HMGT 6329 Seminar in Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) This course features guest lecturers from the healthcare community giving students insight into many diverse career fields. Speakers will offer advice about career preparation, job interviewing, and important skills needed for success. Interaction with the speakers offers a valuable networking experience and an opportunity for mentoring advice. Employment opportunities discussed have included hospital administration, home health agencies, medical group practice, dental practices, governmental agencies, and consulting firms. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6330 Healthcare Law, Policy and Regulation (3 semester credit hours) This course examines how healthcare laws and regulations are enacted, and their impact on providers, payers, and patients. Topics include: Stark prohibitions on provider self-referral, federal regulation of fraud and abuse, the Emergency Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA), and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA). It also examines the process by which Congressional legislation is transformed into day-to-day industry regulation. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320 or program director consent required. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6331 Healthcare Economics (3 semester credit hours) This course applies the tools of economic analysis to the challenges and opportunities faced by managers and policy makers in the health sector. Topics covered include: measuring the benefits of healthcare, the role of insurance in spreading risk and altering incentives, the production of healthcare, price and non-price competition among providers, international comparisons of healthcare systems, and proposed policies that are intended to expand access and contain cost. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6332 (OPRE 6354) Quality Improvement in Healthcare: Six Sigma and Beyond (3 semester credit hours) The course will explore applications of quality improvement measures to the healthcare environment. Applications including the Demming method, QI, and CQI will be studied. Application of other industrial quality improvement methodology including Six Sigma and Toyota Lean will be covered. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6333 Ethics in Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) This course explores ethical issues specific to the healthcare industry including: fraud and abuse, rationing, uninsured treatment, the role of government, and end of life decisions. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6334 (MIS 6305) Healthcare Analytics (3 semester credit hours) The healthcare industry is yet to find ways to make the best use of existing data to improve care, reduce costs, and provide more accessible care. This course introduces the use of business intelligence and decision sciences in the healthcare industry. Students will develop a conceptual understanding of data mining techniques and decision analysis and hands-on experience with several analytics software which may include coding in R, Rattle, and WEKA (as needed and depending on availability). Prerequisite or Corequisite: OPRE 6301 or SYSM 6303 or BUAN 6359 or OPRE 6359. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6335 (OPRE 6332) Spreadsheet Modeling and Analytics (3 semester credit hours) This course explains the concepts of effective spreadsheet design and model building utilizing the electronic spreadsheet as the principal device. The course helps students to take an analytic view and acquire knowledge about specific decision making techniques for business, such as optimization and simulation, building spreadsheet models to identify choices, formalize trade-offs, specify constraints, perform sensitivity analyses, and analyze the impact of uncertainty. The course also examines the applications in finance, economics, marketing, and operations. (3-0) S
HMGT 6336 (ACCT 6336 and MIS 6337) Information Technology Audit and Risk Management (3 semester credit hours) Management's role in designing and controlling information technology used to process data is studied. Topics include the role of internal and external auditors in systems development, information security, business continuity, information technology, internet, change management, and operations. Focus is placed on the assurance of controls over information technology risks and covers topics directly related to the Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) exam. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6340 Principles of Hospital Administration (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the organization and management of modern US hospitals, hospital systems, and integrated healthcare systems. Case studies of leading healthcare organizations will be employed and students will address managerial challenges of future healthcare reform. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320. (3-0) S
HMGT 6355 Capstone in Healthcare Organization Leadership (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. The capstone course is the culmination of the program. Students are required through research to integrate the major theories and principles of the entire curriculum. Students further develop their knowledge and application of healthcare leadership and qualitative and quantitative management concepts and methodologies through application of field experiences. The projects for this course will be specific to the sponsoring organization. Department consent required. (3-0) S
HMGT 6374 (MIS 6374) Internet of Things (3 semester credit hours) The Internet of Things (IoT) is the key to digital transformation. By 2025, more than 25 billion devices in homes, factories, oil wells, hospitals, cities, and cars will be connected to the Internet. Companies are looking for students who are skilled in developing IoT solutions that connect devices, collect, store, and analyze device data. This course provides students with knowledge of IoT components and management of IoT ecosystems. First, students will gain an understanding of digital transformation and Industry 4.0. Next, students will learn about the components of IoT (Sensors, Communication Technology, Networks, Security, Cloud, and Data Analytics). Students will also be exposed to how companies implement solutions on an IoT platform (such as AWS, Azure, or Google). Finally, students will learn about the management of IoT ecosystems in the context of a few use cases (e.g., predictive maintenance, smart transportation, healthcare, or other). (3-0) Y
HMGT 6380 (ACCT 6380) Internal Audit (3 semester credit hours) The course covers internal audit from a broad perspective that includes information technology, business processes, and accounting systems. Topics include internal auditing standards, risk assessment, governance, ethics, audit techniques, consulting and emerging internal audit issues. This is the first course leading to Internal Auditing Education Partnership (IAEP) Certificate and prepares students for the Certified Internal Auditor Exam. Students work on internal audits as part of class along with learning the latest internal audit techniques. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6393 (ACCT 6392) Advanced Auditing (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an in-depth study of issues related to auditing including audits of financial statements, internal audits, internal controls, operations, reporting, and compliance. The course covers current and emerging issues such as enterprise risk management, regulatory compliance, advanced communication techniques, audit management, best practices, sourcing, and quality assessment. Case studies, class discussion, and engagement with audit practitioners supplement class instruction. Prerequisite: ACCT 6334, or an undergraduate degree in Accounting and adequate foundation/academic performance in a corresponding area, or ACCT 6380 or HMGT 6380. (3-0) S
HMGT 6401 Negotiation and Conflict Management in Healthcare (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops the critical negotiating skills needed to increase personal influence and effectiveness. Topics include recognizing and leveraging sources of power in a negotiation, identifying the opposing party's interests as distinct from their position, and negotiating effectively against a stronger opponent. (4-0) T
HMGT 6402 Financial Management of Healthcare Organizations (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops the critical ability to make financial decisions that reduce risk and create economic value. Topics include how to analyze and interpret healthcare financial statements, using discounted cash flow analysis to financially evaluate major spending and investment decisions, and how to financially evaluate a proposed healthcare acquisition, partnership or joint venture. (4-0) T
HMGT 6403 Medical Cost and Performance Management (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops powerful tools to measure and control healthcare costs and improve operating performance. Topics include identifying and controlling key cost drivers in a medical practice, determining the true cost of individual medical services, and using flexible budgeting and cost variance analysis to effectively control spending. (4-0) T
HMGT 6404 Quality and Performance Improvement in Healthcare (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops the knowledge and skills needed to improve the quality of both clinical and patient service processes. Topics include how to increase patient safety and create a patient-centric service culture, evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of existing clinical processes, and identify and eliminate redundancy, bottlenecks and non-value added activities in key service processes. (4-0) T
HMGT 6405 Healthcare Information Management and Technology (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Analyzes how clinical and administrative data is collected, organized, distributed, and used in medical decision-making. Topics include big data and the future of health analytics, the major obstacles to effectively using clinical data to create value, and the physician's role in healthcare data design and governance. (4-0) T
HMGT 6406 Strategic Management of Healthcare Organizations (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops the strategic thinking skills needed to create a sustainable competitive advantage. Topics include how to critically assess a healthcare organization's competitive environment and internal strengths and weaknesses, using value chain analysis to strategically position a medical practice, and identifying a set of medical services that offers a unique patient value. (4-0) T
HMGT 6407 Healthcare Policy and Regulation (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This class meets in Washington, D.C., where physicians meet with key legislators, lobbyists, and administrators to study the complex process by which healthcare legislation makes its way through Congress, explore the role of lobbyists and the media in shaping Congressional and public opinion on health policy issues, and learn how the administrative bureaucracy transforms legislation into statutory law. (4-0) T
HMGT 6408 Competencies of Effective Leaders (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Discusses the key skills and competencies that healthcare leaders, including physicians, need to develop to be successful in their leadership role. Topics include how emotional intelligence and motivational needs influence leadership success, making effective use of the levers of power and personal influence, and communicating a vision and motivating people. (4-0) T
HMGT 6410 Leading in Complex Organizations (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Analyzes the structural design, decision hierarchy, and organizational culture of complex contemporary healthcare organizations. Topics include re-designing organizational structure to improve physician performance, leading change through the use of adaptive leadership practices, and building coalitions and managing internal conflict. (4-0) T
HMGT 6V10 Special Topics in Healthcare Management (1-3 semester credit hours) Issues in current Healthcare Management. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Y
HMGT 6V15 Self-Directed Field Study (1-4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. A self-directed, faculty supervised field study of the participant's practice or medical organization using the knowledge and skills acquired in the residential program. This course is non-residential. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (4 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Department consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
HMGT 6V98 Healthcare Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
HMGT 6V99 Special Topics in Healthcare Management (1-6 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S