IMS 6009 International Management Internship (0 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. (0-0) S
IMS 6091 Regional Area Studies: Latin America (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Latin America and their place in the world economy. Department consent required. May be repeated (2 times maximum). (3-0) Y
IMS 6092 Regional Area Studies: Western Europe (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Western Europe and their place in the world economy. May be repeated (2 times maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6093 Regional Area Studies: Asia (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Asia and their place in the world economy. May be repeated (2 times maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6094 Regional Area Studies: Africa (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Africa and their place in the world economy. Department consent required. May be repeated (2 times maximum). (3-0) Y
IMS 6095 Regional Area Studies: North America (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in North America and their place in the world economy. May be repeated (2 times maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6096 Regional Area Studies: Eastern Europe (0 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in North America and their place in the world economy. May be repeated (2 times maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6097 Regional Area Studies (0 semester credit hours) Regional history of economic development, culture, and overview of firms conducting businesses globally and their place in the world economy. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated as topics vary (2 times maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6151 Global Business Ethics (1 semester credit hour) This course examines practical issues in global business ethics, including compliance requirements and their application, effective reactions to global ethical dilemmas and best practices in global and multicultural environments. (1-0) Y
IMS 6204 Global Business (2 semester credit hours) Provides an introduction to the fundamental concepts of international business, covering macro-level environmental factors that affect international business today. Topics include globalization, country environments, culture, international trade and investment, regional economic integration, and the global monetary system. Credit cannot be received for both courses, IMS 6204 and IMS 6304. May not be used to fulfill degree requirements in MS International Management Studies. (2-0) S
IMS 6212 Global Communication and Negotiations (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course focuses on understanding national culture and cultural issues in international business. It emphasizes the importance of managing cultural differences to enhance communication, negotiation, leadership, and group dynamics in an international work environment. (2-0) Y
IMS 6213 Global Politics in Business (2 semester credit hours) Politics is a common challenge for multinational companies. This course will provide a comprehensive study of global business and politics. It examines regulatory compliance, ideology, government policies, ethical conflicts, environmental and resource issues at a global level. (2-0) Y
IMS 6214 Global Mergers and Acquisitions (2 semester credit hours) This course will examine mergers and acquisitions in the global scale, including identifying targets; valuing the targets; negotiating the deals, and structuring the post-deal integration. It will also cover the legal, organizational and strategic issues that impact the acquisition process. (2-0) Y
IMS 6252 International Business Management (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Considers the role of general managers (CEO and country/regional managers) in multi-national companies and the working relationship of subsidiary and home offices in such companies. Topics include business strategies, control/cooperative systems, the dynamics of addressing local and global concerns, and knowledge transfer. Changes brought about by modern information technology are also considered. (2-0) Y
IMS 6253 Cross-Cultural Management (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education. This course focuses on understanding national culture and cultural issues in international business. It emphasizes the importance of managing regional cultural differences to enhance communication, negotiation, leadership, and group dynamics in an international or global work environment. Prerequisite: OB 6301. (2-0) Y
IMS 6254 Executive International Study Trip - EMBA (2 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course consists of a ten day international trip. The destinations are chosen to relate to an international emphasis and its themes of managing for change, the strategic perspective, and leadership effectiveness. While abroad, participants visit and hear presentations from local business executive. Participants are also expected to identify important cultural variables that impact business decision making and management in the countries visited. Instructor consent required. (2-0) Y
IMS 6302 Legal Aspects of International Business Transactions (3 semester credit hours) The legal environment and framework of international business, legal aspects and implications of international trade and the establishment and operation of business abroad, moving goods across national borders, immigration, joint ventures, licensing, setting up and financing operations abroad, negotiating an international deal, resolving disputes, international corruption, bribery and crime. Prerequisite: IMS 6304 or IMS 6204. (3-0) T
IMS 6304 (ENTP 6304) International Business Management (3 semester credit hours) Focusing on the art and science of international management, the course, using analytical tools and data analysis, surveys the evolving global business environments and evaluates international business operations in various markets of the world. It examines various theories behind international trade and direct investment practices, and fosters evidence-based critical thinking skills. The course also utilizes various case studies to help students learn the necessary scientific, technological, and managerial techniques to manage the challenges and opportunities that businesses face in diverse global markets. (3-0) S
IMS 6310 International Marketing Decision Making (3 semester credit hours) This course, using scientific approaches and real-life cases, aims at preparing students to assess how marketing management methods and principles including product, pricing, promotion, and place (4Ps) decisions apply to international marketing. Analytical techniques and tools such as segmentation, targeting, and positioning (STP) are introduced as key components of a more rigorous scientific approach to international marketing. The learning objective is to have students apply these analytical methods and tools to develop, evaluate, and execute effective strategic and practical decisions in international marketing, including those affecting online and offline consumer behavior. (3-0) Y
IMS 6314 Global E-Business Marketing (3 semester credit hours) This course aims at preparing the students for managing global e-business activities within the framework of accelerated trends for globalization. International aspects of e-business have become more important due to the variables in legal and regulatory regimes, the state of the communications infrastructure and differences in culture; including language and perception of the benefits of the Internet. Students will be prepared to understand the worldwide unevenness in the adoption and use of e-business globally and develop ability to customize and personalize the Internet experience to use at their employment in the field. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) T
IMS 6316 Global Politics in Business (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Managers operate in complex environments that often feature politics as a common challenge. This course provides a framework for strategic thinking about business and politics, including global and regional perspectives on international trade and production. Current topics and countries covered vary, but may include geopolitical events, taxation, lobbying, regulatory compliance and corruption, labor and automation, environmental and resource issues, and multiple types of political risks for firms. (3-0) Y
IMS 6317 Global Mergers and Acquisitions (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. The course will emphasize cross-border mergers and acquisitions transactions (including EU and Asia Pacific) including identifying targets; valuation of targets with the use of financial models; negotiating the deals, deal structuring (public and private firms), value creation, deal closing, alliances and post-deal integration. The course will also include an in-depth study of the regulatory environment for US and European Union countries. Students will develop business and acquisition plans that could be used to convince top management of an acquiring corporation, a venture capital firm or a lender to fund their proposal. Prerequisites: FIN 6301 and MECO 6303 and ACCT 6301. (3-0) Y
IMS 6341 International Human Resource Management (3 semester credit hours) This course will focus on the impact of globalization on managing international human resources. The central aim of this course is to identify the challenges of managing diverse manpower in an international set up and to teach students how to effectively manage diverse manpower in rapidly changing global business environments. Students will learn how to develop an effective human resource management strategy by incorporating cultural, legal and social aspects of a host country. The course also introduces comparative HR practices in the process of expatriates' selection, training and managing of cultural shocks and reverse cultural shocks. (3-0) Y
IMS 6343 Sustainability in a Global Business Environment (3 semester credit hours) This course is expected to enhance global awareness and discovery of how local businesses and organizations can create sustainable value for people and planet. This course will cover basic concepts in business sustainability and organizational management, such as leadership, social capital, and organizational design. Students will have a better understanding of the opportunities and challenges of businesses in a diverse environment challenged by globalization pressures. The course will be offered as part of an interdisciplinary field study program. (3-0) Y
IMS 6345 Global Leadership (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course challenges students to address ethics issues across multiple cultures and to leverage their leadership skills to implement strategy and to lead and execute across global markets. Prerequisites: BPS 6310 and (IMS 6365 or IMS 6304). (3-0) Y
IMS 6351 Executive International Study Trip - EMBA (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course consists of a ten day international trip. The destinations are chosen to relate to an international emphasis and its themes of managing for change, the strategic perspective, and leadership effectiveness. While abroad, participants visit and hear presentations from local university faculty, local business executives, and expert panels. Participants are also expected to identify important cultural variables that impact business decision making and management in the countries visited. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6354 Global Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course promotes an appreciation and understanding of theoretical and practical issues involved in marketing products and services in the international context. This course covers the fundamentals and evolution of international marketing, the environment of international marketing, foreign entry methods, evaluation of market potential, management of international marketing mix, consumer behavior and international strategic marketing planning. Prerequisite: MKT 6301. (3-0) Y
IMS 6358 Strategy for Implementing Sustainability Initiatives in Emerging Markets (3 semester credit hours) The course, through UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals, familiarizes students with specific global economic challenges as related to emerging markets. The course helps students to better understand the business strategies that address sustainability, and to have a greater regard for the rational allocation of resources, equity among individuals, and environmental safety. Students in the course will use the theories of the triple helix model and bottom of the pyramid to develop a holistic approach to the problem. (3-0) S
IMS 6360 International Strategy Analysis and Techniques (3 semester credit hours) Focusing on the art and science of strategic management, this course analyzes the various techniques leveraged by multinational firms in their global business operations. The course aims to incorporate analytical (quantitative/qualitative) research methodologies that can be applied to strategic management processes. This course provides knowledge on how to use data to support the choice of strategies that allow organizations to enter and compete in diverse international markets. Students will be familiarized with the in-depth methods of assessing opportunities, evaluating risks, and implementing various entry and post-entry strategies. This course demonstrates analytical research methods used to analyze and evaluate the processes of strategic alliances, mergers and acquisitions, and supply chain restructuring. (3-0) Y
IMS 6362 (ENGY 6362 and OPRE 6362 and SYSM 6311) Project Management in Engineering and Operations (3 semester credit hours) Project management is the discipline of planning, organizing and managing resources to bring about the successful completion of specific project goals and objectives. The course will cover various aspects of managing projects in engineering and operations environments including the critical path methods for planning and controlling projects, time and cost tradeoffs, resource utilization, organizational design, conflict resolution and stochastic considerations. (3-0) S
IMS 6363 Regional Area Studies (3 semester credit hours) This course enriches students' exposure to global business environments by visiting international companies, higher education institutions, and cultural sites in a specific county/region in the world. Students will gain firsthand knowledge about how companies manage their businesses and their place in the world economy while learning and analyzing their specific challenges, opportunities, and benefits of conducting businesses globally. Students will participate in pre-trip class sessions to prepare for the international experience and also post-trip class sessions to discuss their findings and present their papers. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6364 International Management Practicum (3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves managerial skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. This practicum course includes projects sponsored by international companies which provide students with opportunities to apply their managerial skills and knowledge to solve challenging real-world problems. Such experiential learning allows students to work in diverse team environments, interact with industry leaders, analyze business problems, and develop appropriate solutions. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6365 Cross-Cultural Management Analysis (3 semester credit hours) The course, using various cultural frameworks and theories, focuses on the comparative analysis of cross-country cultural values. The course familiarizes students with science-based anthropological cultural tools that are used to measure the cultural value changes of individuals and societies. Through empirical analysis, this course helps understand whether the cultural value changes across nations, organizations, and groups are diverging or converging. Students will be engaged in research projects, which require the application of theories and survey-based quantitative analysis. This course provides knowledge on how the cultural background of employees shapes the behavior of organizations, and how to conduct effective negotiation and build synergy in a multicultural business environment. (3-0) Y
IMS 6367 International Management Capstone (3 semester credit hours) As a capstone, this course combines rigorous training in scientific and analytical techniques with an in-depth, hands-on experience centered on a real international management project. Students will work on teams as consultants assisting a business seeking to expand into foreign markets under the guidance of international business professionals. Students will utilize quantitative/qualitative research methodologies to develop their recommendations. Furthermore, students will develop global skill sets by expanding their knowledge of various scientific, technological, and managerial techniques utilized in a global environment. As part of their consulting experience, students will defend their findings and recommendations in front of a panel of international business professionals. Prerequisite or Corequisite: IMS 6360. (3-0) Y
IMS 6370 Seminar in International Operations Management (3 semester credit hours) One of two capstone courses designed around a study tour to an international location where students attend courses at a local university with local students, interact with managers from local companies regarding business practices, and study the culture of the country they are visiting. Prerequisites: ACCT 6301 and FIN 6301 and MKT 6301 and OPRE 6362 and department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6371 Seminar in International Strategic Management (3 semester credit hours) One of two capstone courses designed around a study tour to an international location where students attend courses at a local university with local students, interact with managers from local companies regarding business practices, and study the culture of the country they are visiting. Prerequisites: ACCT 6301 and FIN 6301 and MKT 6301 and OPRE 6362 and department consent required. (3-0) Y
IMS 6373 Data Analytics for International Business (3 semester credit hours) The course, using various cultural frameworks and theories, focuses on the comparative analysis of cross-country cultural values. The course familiarizes students with science-based anthropological cultural tools that are used to measure the cultural value changes of individuals and societies. Through empirical analysis, this course helps understand whether the cultural value changes across nations, organizations, and groups are diverging or converging. Students will be engaged in research projects, which require the application of theories and survey-based quantitative analysis. This course provides knowledge on how the cultural background of employees shapes the behavior of organizations, and how to conduct effective negotiation and build synergy in a multicultural business environment. (3-0) S
IMS 6381 Managing Global Teams (3 semester credit hours) This course aims to develop the cross-cultural competence and communication skills required when managing global teams. This course provides knowledge on how to structure successful global virtual teams, manage active faultiness and resolve conflicts in global teams, coach global teams, utilize feedback effectively across cultures, and manage performance within an international team. (3-0) S
IMS 6V91 Regional Area Studies: Latin America (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Latin America and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V92 Regional Area Studies: Western Europe (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Western Europe and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V93 Regional Area Studies: Asia (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Asia and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V94 Regional Area Studies: Africa (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Africa and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V95 Regional Area Studies: North America (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in North America and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V96 Regional Area Studies: Eastern Europe (1-3 semester credit hours) History of economic development and overview of current participation of firms in Eastern Europe and their place in the world economy. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
IMS 6V98 International Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
IMS 6V99 Special Topics in International Management Studies (1-6 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
IMS 7301 International Business (3 semester credit hours) Current theories in international business, and the formal and informal institutions affecting international business. (3-0) Y
IMS 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S