MAS 6000 Advanced Professional Development (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to build upon skills learned in previous professional development courses. Students will be introduced to advanced topics that will further their career management skills, including advanced verbal and written communication and networking with influence and persuasion. The goal is to make students more marketable and valuable professionals to the global economy. Prerequisites: (Non-MBA or Non-Accounting major) AND (MAS 6102 or ACCT 6388). (0-0) S
MAS 6009 Management Internship (0 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. (0-0) S
MAS 6100 Advanced Internship (1 semester credit hour) Student gains an advanced experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. JSOM Internship Coordinator consent required. (1-0) S
MAS 6102 Professional Development (1 semester credit hour) This course is designed to enhance the student's experience such as building networking skills, verbal and written communication skills, business etiquette, and learning how to increase their human capital. Students will learn how to build a personal career portfolio (an approved resume, a LinkedIn profile, etc.), how to market themselves, how to prepare for internship and job placement interviews, and how to utilize professional networking. The goal is to make students more marketable and valuable professionals to the global economy. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisite: Non-MBA or Non-Accounting major. (1-0) S
MAS 6103 Strategic Business Communications (1 semester credit hour) Executive Education course. This course helps students effectively and efficiently communicate at an executive level, both written and orally. Through presentations and written analysis, students will implement appropriate communication strategies and receive candid, constructive feedback to refine their executive communication skills. (1-0) Y
MAS 6104 Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance (1 semester credit hour) Executive Education Course. This course is designed to help students understand theoretical and practical aspects of corporate governance. The course primarily focuses on the systems of ethical corporate governance which balance the board of directors and management's expectations. The course will cover topics including the laws, regulations and rules of regulatory bodies, ethical standards, corporate strategy and growth, risks, and issues management. (1-0) Y
MAS 6105 Communications for Management (1 semester credit hour) Successful managers understand that effective communications are a critical component to advancing a career. This course introduces best practices in written, oral, and networking communications so students understand how to organize and construct informative and effective business messages, how to structure and deliver effective and persuasive presentations, and how to present themselves successfully. Pass/Fail only. This course is offered in an online format only. (1-0) S
MAS 6301 Studies in Project Management Practices (3 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. This course explores and analyzes the application of project management methodology in practice and professional credentialing of managers of projects, programs, and portfolios. This course is offered in an online format only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary(6 semester credit hours maximum). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. (3-0) S
MAS 6367 Capstone Projects in Management Science (3 semester credit hours) Capstone projects are sponsored by local industries and provide the students an opportunity to apply skills and knowledge gained to solve real world challenging problems in the area of Management Science. Students work in a team environment, interact with industry leaders, and gain some industry specific knowledge. Course may not be taken during the first year of a student's degree program. It is recommended for students to take this course in their graduating semester. Prerequisites or Corequisites: OPRE 6332 and (OPRE 6301 or OPRE 6359 or BUAN 6359). (3-0) S
MAS 6373 Performance Based Logistics in Defense (3 semester credit hours) Performance Based Logistics (PBL) is a product support strategy for defense systems that is outcomes based and incentivizes product support providers to reduce costs through innovations and improvements. The course discusses the current state of PBL, the elements that make up a strong PBL arrangement, the role of the Department of Defense (DoD) in PBL contracts, the role of the contractor in PBL contracts, risks and rewards shared by the DoD and contractors, risk management, performance management and baseline performance setting, and contract execution issues. The course uses real examples from the defense industry wherever possible to reinforce the topics. (3-0) R
MAS 6374 Lean Six-Sigma in Defense (3 semester credit hours) Lean Six Sigma is a structured methodology and set of tools and techniques used extensively in the defense industry to improve quality and performance of business processes for the Department of Defense (DoD), contractors, and suppliers. The course provides the knowledge and skills to apply the Lean Six Sigma methodology through Green Belt projects at defense-related organizations, but also any type of organization. Examples from the DoD and major defense contractors will be used throughout the course to show Lean Six Sigma in action. In addition, the course prepares students for taking the Six Sigma Green Belt (SSGB) Certification exam through the American Society for Quality (ASQ) to obtain the professional certification. (3-0) R
MAS 6375 Defense Supply Chain Risk Management (3 semester credit hours) Supply chains for defense systems can be incredibly large and complex, which creates unique challenges for managing risks. The course discusses the types of supply chain structures used for defense systems, typical management policies of prime contractors and suppliers, challenges with multi-tier supply chains, challenges with supporting fleets of systems worldwide, problems associated with readiness and aging systems, along with types of risks and typical risk mitigation or avoidance techniques. The course also uses case studies based on actual defense-related supply chain examples and supply chain simulation assist with the learning concepts. (3-0) R
MAS 6376 Contracts Management for Defense (3 semester credit hours) This course discusses the unique acquisition and management processes for defense contracts. Topics include acquisition lifecycle, legal structures of defense contracts, source selection planning, proposal development, solicitation management, source selection evaluation, contract award, and contractor debriefings. The course also covers contract administration, transitioning to performance, quality management, subcontract management, financial management, performance monitoring, change management, and contract closeout. The course also uses real-world examples from the defense industry for case studies and practical exercises. (3-0) R
MAS 6V00 Special Topics in Management Science (1-4 semester credit hours) May be lecture, readings, or individualized study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Department consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V01 Special Topics in Management (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V02 Special Topics in Organizational Behavior (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V03 Special Topics in Business Policy and Strategy (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V04 Special Topics in International Management (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V05 Special Topics in Marketing Management (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V06 Special Topics in Finance (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V07 Special Topics in Managerial Economics (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V08 Special Topics in Operations Research (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V09 Special Topics in Accounting (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V10 Special Topics in Management Information Systems (1-4 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
MAS 6V98 Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: (MAS 6102 or MBA major) and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8113 Practicum in Management (1 semester credit hour) Course develops a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Student is required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective, via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral presentation, reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. (1-0) S
MAS 8399 Dissertation (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
MAS 8V00 Special Topics in Management Science (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V01 Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Course develops a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Student is required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective, via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral presentation, reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours). Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V03 Special Topics in Business Policy and Strategy (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V04 Special Topics in International Management (1-3 semester credit hours) Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V05 Special Topics in Marketing Management (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V06 Special Topics in Finance (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V07 Special Topics in Managerial Economics (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V08 Special Topics in Operations Research (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V09 Special Topics in Accounting (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V10 Special Topics in Management Information Systems (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MAS 8V80 Research Series in Management Science - Operations Research (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V81 Research Series in Management Science - Management Information Systems (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V82 Research Series in Management Science - Organizational Behavior (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V83 Research Series in Management Science - Business Systems: Marketing (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V84 Research Series in Management Science - Business Systems: Financial (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V90 Research Series in Management Science - Accounting (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Additional prerequisites may be required depending on the specific course topic. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V91 Research Series in Management Science - Strategic Management (2, 3, 6 or 9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([2, 3, 6 or 9]-0) S
MAS 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S