AP 2V71 Independent Study in Art and Performance (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit as projects vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
AP 3300 Elements of Art and Performance (3 semester credit hours) An analysis of the elements of space, time, image, text, and gesture as they relate to art making in the various visual and performing arts. These elements will also serve as a starting point from which students will investigate notions of creativity, expression, and aesthetics in a workshop setting. This course explores what constitutes a work of art, and ways in which a work of art can be perceived and interpreted. AP 3300 is a requirement for all AP majors and is restricted to majors within the School of Arts and Humanities (Art and Performance, Literary Studies, and Historical Studies). AP 3300 should be taken prior to completing the first 12 hours of upper-division course work. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) S
AP 3340 Writing in the Arts (3 semester credit hours) This writing-intensive course focuses on the writing styles and conventions associated with the creative and performing arts. Students will become familiar with approaches and methodologies in the creative and performing arts, learn to critique and review artistic endeavors, and grasp the basics of research. This course fulfills the advanced writing requirement for Art and Performance majors. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 or equivalent. (3-0) Y
AP 4V71 Independent Study in Art and Performance (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit as projects vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
AP 4V99 Senior Honors in Art and Performance (1-3 semester credit hours) Intended for students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Signature of instructor and secondary reader on proposed project outline required. Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R