GST 2300 Introduction to Gender Studies (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the way gender shapes individuals, social institutions and culture. Examines gender, class, sexuality, race/ethnicity, and nationality as interactive systems. Topics include biological arguments about gender and sexuality; the cultural construction of gender; the psychology of sex roles; the ways gender shapes families, workplaces and other social institutions. (Same as SOC 2300) (3-0) Y
GST 2311 Social Change and Photography in America (3 semester credit hours) This course exposes students to a broad range of images from the tradition of American documentary photography in order to help them better understand the role that such images play in social change. After briefly familiarizing ourselves with the history of photography and photographic methods, we will trace the history of documentary photography in the United States from the late nineteenth century to the present. (Same as AMS 2311) (3-0) R
GST 2312 Social and Political Legacies of the 1960s (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the social and political movements of the 1960s and links those activities to more recent debates regarding various forms of political thought and action in American society. We will follow the history of the sixties in order to enhance our understanding of the people, events, and places that not only defined this decade but which have also impacted American society in subsequent decades. Course readings and lectures will be supplemented by a wide range of media including songs, commercials, print advertisements, movies, and documentary footage. (Same as AMS 2312) (3-0) R
GST 2V90 Topics in Gender Studies (1-6 semester credit hours) The course is designed mainly for sophomores. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) R
GST 3301 Psychology of Gender (3 semester credit hours) Examines gender as it is expressed in the personality of the individual and in the social relations of dyads and groups. Topics include gender identity, sexual orientation, gender differences in intellectual abilities and personality characteristics, gender as it is expressed in friendships, marriage, and sexuality, and cultural gender stereotypes as they affect individual psychology and personal relationships. (Same as PSY 3324) (3-0) Y
GST 3302 Gender in Western Thought (3 semester credit hours) Identifies gendered approaches within the history of ideas, including philosophy, theology, and literature. Universal truths about human nature, particularly with regard to sex and gender, are located within the intellectual milieu of various writers and within the larger body of Western thought. (Same as HIST 3302) (3-0) Y
GST 3303 Gender, Society and Politics (3 semester credit hours) Addresses the influence of gender on the distribution of public goods and the way gender, interacting with race and class, shapes social, political, and economic institutions. Introduces students to traditional notions of rights and citizenship as conceptual underpinnings for contemporary political and legal debates (on welfare, reproductive rights, childcare, job segregation, women in the military, prostitution). (3-0) Y
GST 4311 Gender and Education (3 semester credit hours) An examination of the impact of gender, race, and class on the educational experiences of men and women. Considers the way educational institutions both empower individuals and reproduce social inequalities based on class, gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. Topics include Enlightenment discussions of gender and reason, co-ed vs. single sex education, curriculum transformation efforts to include the history and experiences of women and ethnic minorities, feminist and critical pedagogies. (3-0) Y
GST 4325 Motherhood and the Technological Womb (3 semester credit hours) Examines the relationship between reproductive technologies and the meanings of motherhood. Investigates the history of reproductive technologies and how various interventions and medical/technological "advances" have influenced the social, emotional, legal, political, and economic dimensions of motherhood and reproduction. Topics include conception and birth control, "test tube" babies, infertility treatments, surrogacy, fetal ultrasound imaging, high-order multiple births, genetic testing, cloning, and ectogenesis (artificial wombs). (3-0) Y
GST 4360 Rebels and Reformers: Women and Alcohol in America (3 semester credit hours) This course examines women's historical role as crusaders against alcohol and identifies how the role of reformer was gendered. Identifies the genesis of the disease concept of alcoholism and how it was applied to men and women in different ways. This course also examines gendered ideas about male and female drinking and how they are represented in popular culture, literature, and film. (Same as AMS 4360) (3-0) Y
GST 4379 Special Topics in Gender Studies (3 semester credit hours) The course is designed mainly for seniors. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
GST 4380 Women, Work and Family (3 semester credit hours) An examination of the relationship between women's work for pay in the marketplace and their unpaid work in homes across time and in different cultures. Topics include historical separation of work from home under capitalism; division of household labor between men and women; public policy initiatives (socialized/commercial housework and daycare, family leave, telecommuting, part-time and flex-time work) designed to make juggling work and family easier; the ways class, race, and ethnicity constrain and enable women's choices. (Same as SOC 4380) (3-0) R
GST 4381 Senior Honors Research (3 semester credit hours) Designed for students conducting original research. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
GST 4382 Senior Honors in Gender Studies (3 semester credit hours) To qualify for magna or summa cum laude if the required number of semester credit hours are taken at UT Dallas. A suitable ranking of this paper/project is required to qualify for honors. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
GST 4V80 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R