PPOL 4300 Capstone in Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to expose students to real-world policy-making and implementation. A major research project will strengthen the research, information access, and lifelong learning capacities of the students. Prerequisites: EPPS 2301 and (EPPS 2302 or EPPS 2303). (3-0) Y
PPOL 4301 Law, Science, and Policy (3 semester credit hours) In this course we will investigate how legal structures influence the production of science and the protection of intellectual property. We will also inquire into the manner in which judges and litigants use science in the courtroom. We will cover topics such as the use of DNA in criminal and family law, how judges evaluate scientific evidence (and the value of scientific peer review), government promotion of science using law and other means-among several others. (Same as PSCI 4301) (3-0) T
PPOL 4302 Data and Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the implications of data for policy and policy for data. Policy topics will focus on the relationship between data privacy and security at the national and international level. Students will learn about relevant legislation and its practical and theoretical implications. We will explore contemporary types of data, the ways these data are changing as a result of technological innovations, and the impact of these changes on our privacy and security. (Same as PSCI 4302) (3-0) T
PPOL 4303 The Internet and Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to issues in public policy in the context of the Internet; understanding of regulation in cyberspace; censorship, net neutrality, intellectual property, big data privacy, and bullying issues pertinent to the Internet; and understanding of the use of Internet for terrorism. (3-0) T
PPOL 4396 Topics in Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
PPOL 4398 Internship (3 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
PPOL 4V91 Undergraduate Research in Public Policy (1-6 semester credit hours) Subject and scope to be determined on an individual basis. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PPOL 4V96 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for students individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PPOL 4V99 Senior Honors in Public Policy (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S