HIST 6301 Historiography (3 semester credit hours) Graduate-level introduction to the practice and forms of written history. Required of all students in the MA program in History, this course examines the ways in which historians have conceived of their craft, the centrality of interpretation to the historical process, and the use of a variety of methods and theories in the study of the past. Students are expected to complete this course within their first two semesters of enrollment. (3-0) Y
HIST 6302 Public History (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the field of public history. In it, they will interrogate how, why, where, and when we present the past to the public, and develop fundamental skills to do so in engaging, enlightening, and ethical ways. (3-0) R
HIST 6303 Teaching History (3 semester credit hours) The study of methods in teaching history and the practical application of these methods in the college classroom. Students will produce sample teaching materials, such as a syllabus and a teaching philosophy statement. (3-0) R
HIST 6305 Exploring Urban Cultures (3 semester credit hours) The study of the European cities of Berlin, Paris, and London from the mid-nineteenth through the early twentieth centuries. (3-0) T
HIST 6306 Artist and Writer in Society (3 semester credit hours) Inquiries into the role and activities of creative artists and writers in a historical and cultural context. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 6310 Early American History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in American history through the American Revolution. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6320 America in the Nineteenth Century (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in American history in the nineteenth century. Topics may include the Civil War and Reconstruction. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6321 Thought, Culture, and Society in the United States (3 semester credit hours) Themes in the intellectual, cultural, and philosophical history of the United States. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6322 Nineteenth-Century American Cultural History (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the cultural history and historiography of nineteenth-century America. Central themes include the cultural history of capitalism; race, slavery, and representation; memory and cultural reproduction; and the development of a modern bureaucratic set of values. (3-0) T
HIST 6323 Readings in American Culture (3 semester credit hours) An examination of historically significant works of American culture within their historical context. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 6324 Gilded Age and Progressive Era (3 semester credit hours) The study of social, political, and economic life in the period between 1877 and 1919. Special attention to the relationship between government and society. (3-0) R
HIST 6325 America in the Twentieth Century (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods of American history in the twentieth century. Topics may include World War I, World War II, and the Civil Rights Era. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6327 U.S. Since 1945 (3 semester credit hours) The study of the political, economic, social, and cultural development of the United States since the end of World War II. (3-0) R
HIST 6328 The 1960s (3 semester credit hours) The study of the "Long Decade" of the 1960s, from Elvis to the fall of Richard Nixon. The course will analyze political, economic, social, and cultural developments. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6330 Regional and Area History in the United States (3 semester credit hours) The study of themes related to the history of specific regions of the United States, for example the South, the Southwest, and Texas. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 6332 Slavery in America (3 semester credit hours) The study of the origins, evolution, growth, and destruction of racial slavery in America from 1619-1865. (3-0) R
HIST 6333 Rise of the Jim Crow South (3 semester credit hours) The study of the origins of segregation and disfranchisement in the New South. Explores historiographical debates about the nature and meaning of Jim Crow. (3-0) R
HIST 6334 New Directions in Southern Studies (3 semester credit hours) The study of how scholarship on the U.S. South has begun to push the conventional boundaries of the discipline through its focus on the categories of race, gender, sexuality, and transnationalism. (3-0) R
HIST 6335 U.S. Women (3 semester credit hours) The study of recent historiography, current methods, and major themes in U.S. women's and gender history. (3-0) T
HIST 6336 The Idea of the American South (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to explore the history and literature of the idea of the American South as it has developed since the Civil War. Drawing on a range of works, including primary and secondary sources, this class will explore such themes as regionalism, nationalism, race, class, culture, and identity. We will pay special attention to the field of southern history and what has been called the "new southern studies." (3-0) R
HIST 6337 American Political Cultures (3 semester credit hours) An inquiry into the development of political cultures in the United States. Topics may include the apparatus of the state, the development, and influence of political parties and ideologies, and grass-roots political movements. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6340 European and World History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in the history of Europe and the world. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6341 Thought, Culture, and Society in Europe (3 semester credit hours) Themes in the intellectual, cultural, and philosophical history of Europe. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6342 The Holocaust (3 semester credit hours) An examination of the event, its background, and its consequences, with emphasis on the political, psychological, theological, and artistic responses it has engendered. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
HIST 6343 Modernity, Culture, and the Jews (3 semester credit hours) The study of the role of Jews in the creation of modern culture, with emphasis on Jewish participation as an area of interaction, exchange, and encounter. (3-0) T
HIST 6350 Asian History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in the history of Asia. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6351 Thought, Culture, and Society in Asia (3 semester credit hours) Themes in the intellectual, cultural, and philosophical history of Asia. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6360 Latin American History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in the history of Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6361 Thought, Culture, and Society in Latin America (3 semester credit hours) Themes in the intellectual, cultural, and philosophical history of Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6365 Mexican History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in the history of Mexico. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6370 Middle Eastern History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in the history of the Middle East. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6371 Thought, Culture, and Society in the Middle East (3 semester credit hours) Themes in the intellectual, cultural, and philosophical history of the Middle East. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6380 History of Early Modern Thought (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to and examination of the authors and texts influential in shaping Western culture through the eighteenth century. The course will treat philosophy as well as social, political, and religious thought during particular periods. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours). (3-0) T
HIST 6381 History of Modern Thought (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to and examination of the authors and texts influential in shaping modern Western culture since 1800. The course will treat philosophy as well as social, political, and religious thought during particular periods. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6382 (PHIL 6355) Magic, Science, and Religion (3 semester credit hours) A study of the relationships between magic, science, and religion during the period of the Scientific Revolution, and how these relationships interacted with the development of early modern European culture and society. (3-0) T
HIST 6383 (PHIL 6356) Space, Time, and Culture (3 semester credit hours) The study of the relationship between changing philosophic and scientific concepts of space and time and forms of cultural expression such as art, literature, and music. (3-0) T
HIST 6384 Movements in Thought and Culture (3 semester credit hours) The study of movements in thought and culture through a variety of perspectives, but emphasizing their intellectual bases: e.g., the Enlightenment, Romanticism, etc. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6385 Modern Jewish Thought (3 semester credit hours) Study of modern and contemporary Jewish thought, with an emphasis on the relationship between Judaism and philosophy. (3-0) R
HIST 6386 (PHIL6351) History and Philosophy of Science and Technology (3 semester credit hours) The study of one or more topics in history and philosophy of science, technology, or medicine. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6388 Perceptions of the Past (3 semester credit hours) Approaches to perceiving, reconstructing, appreciating, and analyzing the past. Formal historiographical methods, the fictionalization of the past, or the understanding of memory and nostalgia may be emphasized. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 6389 Ideas in Historical Contexts (3 semester credit hours) The study of an idea or ideas in specific cultural, historical, or disciplinary circumstances. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 6390 Topics in History (3 semester credit hours) The study of specific themes and/or periods in history. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 6391 Topics in the History of Ideas (3 semester credit hours) Topics in intellectual and/or cultural history. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 6394 Independent Study in History of Ideas (3 semester credit hours) Independent study that may count toward minimum course requirements of the MA in History of Ideas. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HIST 6395 Special Topics in History (3 semester credit hours) If taken as an independent study, course may count toward minimum course requirements for the MA degree. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HIST 6396 Historical Inquiry (3 semester credit hours) A leveling course for graduate students with little background in the field as an advanced introduction to historical study and the history of ideas. Department consent required. (3-0) R
HIST 6397 Independent Study in History (3 semester credit hours) Independent study that may count toward minimum course requirements of the MA in History. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HIST 6398 Independent Research in History (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HIST 6399 Master's Thesis (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). Only 6 semester credit hours will be counted toward MA. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
HIST 7301 Research Methods (3 semester credit hours) Practical training in historical research using primary sources. May include archival research training. (3-0) R
HIST 7305 Advanced Topics in Thought, Culture, and Society (3 semester credit hours) Advanced topics in intellectual and cultural history. The course may focus on different themes, periods, and geographical areas. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 7306 Advanced Topics in Women, Gender, and Sexuality (3 semester credit hours) A historical examination of the varied experiences of women, of ideas and cultural expressions of gender and sexuality. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
HIST 7320 Advanced Topics in U.S. Thought, Culture, and Society (3 semester credit hours) Advanced topics in the intellectual and cultural history of the United States. The course will focus on key thinkers, ideas, schools of thought, or cultural beliefs chosen from different periods and understood within their intellectual and social contexts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 7321 American Intellectual History (3 semester credit hours) The study of American thought from the seventeenth century to the present, with a focus on philosophy, political thought, and social thought. (3-0) T
HIST 7340 Advanced Topics in European Thought, Culture, and Society (3 semester credit hours) Advanced topics in the intellectual and cultural life of European societies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
HIST 7387 (PHIL 7387) Advanced Topics in the History and Philosophy of Science and Technology (3 semester credit hours) Topics will vary but may include consideration of the philosophical or historical basis for the evolution of scientific thought; the problem of conceptual change in the study of the fundamental character of technology and its impact on culture. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R