LIT 5348 Topics in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6300 Proseminar in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the key concepts, issues, and debates in the discipline of literary studies. (3-0) Y
LIT 6304 Studies in Literary Themes (3 semester credit hours) Examination of specific themes as they appear in various literary works and traditions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6305 The Anti-Hero (3 semester credit hours) Examines the anti-hero in the novel, poetry, and drama (including film and television). (3-0) R
LIT 6308 Studies in Literary Forms and Genres (3 semester credit hours) Studies in various literary genres, either individually or in relation to each other. Among topics considered will be the difficulties of defining genres, the nature of specific genres, their historical and aesthetic development, and their artistic possibilities. Genres for discussion may include tragedy, comedy, the novel, and various forms of poetic expression. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6309 Studies in Literary Movements (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the nature of intellectual and artistic movements, with emphasis on how they affect literary expression. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6310 Studies in Literary Interpretation (3 semester credit hours) Study of the issues involved in the attempt to interpret dramatic, poetic, and fictional texts. Emphasis will be placed on the writing of interpretive essays and on the exploration of how various cultural and intellectual perspectives as well as different theoretical stances affect the reading of a specific text. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6312 Major Authors (3 semester credit hours) Study of one or more major literary figures, such as Dante, Chaucer, Milton, Cervantes, Goethe, Blake, Balzac, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Mann, Eliot, Pound, Woolf, Faulkner, Paz, or Borges. May be repeated for credit as subjects vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6313 Shakespeare (3 semester credit hours) Study of the dramatic and/or poetic writings of William Shakespeare. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6315 Literary Theory (3 semester credit hours) Examination of currents and debates in contemporary literary theory. (3-0) Y
LIT 6316 Critical Theory: Major Schools (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the major schools of critical theory. (3-0) R
LIT 6317 Cultural Studies (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the theory and practice of cultural studies. (3-0) R
LIT 6318 Visual Culture (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the ideas, principles, and practices related to the cultural study of the visual; development of skills for observing, analyzing, describing, and critiquing the relationship between textuality and visuality from a range of theoretical perspectives. (3-0) R
LIT 6320 Poetry Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced creative techniques and processes necessary for producing effective poems. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6321 Fiction Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced creative techniques and processes necessary to producing effective short stories. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6322 (VPAS 6352) Creating Television and Movie Scripts (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing techniques and processes necessary for producing movie, multimedia, video, and television scripts. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6323 (VPAS 6353) Creating Plays and Musicals (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing creative techniques and processes necessary for producing plays and musicals. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6325 Nonfiction Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced techniques and processes necessary for producing effective nonfiction. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6330 Studies in Literature and the Other Arts (3 semester credit hours) Examination of literature and its relationship to the visual and/or performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6340 Studies in Ancient and Early Modern Literature (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the literature and culture of selected periods in the Western tradition. May focus on ancient, medieval, or early modern periods. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6345 Early American Literature (3 semester credit hours) Study of literary works written in and about America from the early 1500s to 1800. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6346 American Renaissance (3 semester credit hours) Study of the authors whose work first defined nineteenth-century American literary studies: Melville, Hawthorne, Whitman, Emerson, and Thoreau; consideration of the challenges to that initial canon as well as the writers that the canon excluded (Stowe, Douglass, Jacobs, and others). (3-0) T
LIT 6348 Women in Early Modern Literature (3 semester credit hours) Study of the representation of women in literature of the early modern period (1500-1700). (3-0) R
LIT 6350 Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the literatures and cultures of the nineteenth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6355 Studies in Literature, Science, and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the treatment of scientific concepts (e.g., relativity, evolution) and technological developments (e.g., computers, virtual reality) in literature. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6360 Literature of the Twentieth Century (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the literatures and cultures of the twentieth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6370 Studies in Literature and Ideas (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the relationship between selected literary texts and major ideas in philosophy, science, and politics; examination of systems of thoughts as they are incorporated, delineated, and explored in literature. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6372 Studies in Literature and Society (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the values and concerns of various social groups through a study of literary texts; consideration of the role of literature and the writer in given societies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6373 Topics in Latin American Literature (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the literatures and cultures of Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6374 Modern Jewish Literature across Cultures (3 semester credit hours) Study of modern Jewish literatures in multiple national contexts and languages, with emphasis on the interaction between modernity and vision of Jewish identities and traditions. (3-0) T
LIT 6375 German Literature and Ideas 1870-1960 (3 semester credit hours) Study of the range and diversity of German-Austrian literature and thought from the end of the nineteenth century through the 1960s. (3-0) T
LIT 6376 Literature of Weimar Germany (3 semester credit hours) Study of literature written during the Weimar Republic (1918-1933) with attention to formative influences on and cultural-political forces shaping the artistic imagination. (3-0) T
LIT 6378 Literature and the Holocaust (3 semester credit hours) Study of major literary works (novels, short stories, and poems) written under the impact of the Holocaust as well as literary theories responding to these texts. Some emphasis placed on films and other works of visual art. (3-0) T
LIT 6380 Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop designed to provide students with a model not only of literary interpretation but also of an interdisciplinary approach to literature through the act of translation. Emphasis is on the translation of literary texts into English. Issues involved in this process will form the basis of the workshop's theoretical component. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6381 Critical Approaches to Translation (3 semester credit hours) Study of the various approaches to the history, theory, and criticism of literary and humanistic translation. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6384 Digital and Visual Rhetorics (3 semester credit hours) Covers a wide range of topics addressing the study of visual rhetoric as well as rhetoric in digital environments. Course also emphasizes the relationship of digital and visual rhetorics to media ecology/media studies as well as the implications of these rhetorics for composition pedagogy. (3-0) R
LIT 6385 Rhetorical Theory (3 semester credit hours) A historical survey of Western rhetorical theory focusing on major figures. (3-0) T
LIT 6386 Special Topics in Rhetoric (3 semester credit hours) A course in the study of rhetoric. May include one or more topics such as ethos, histories of rhetoric, the rhetoric of technology and science, the Sophists, rhetoric as epistemic, key figures in rhetoric (e.g., Burke, Foucault, Baudrillard, Spivak, etc.). May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6392 Topics in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6395 Independent Study (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the MA degree. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 6396 Spanish Language, Literature, and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the language, various literary movements, or the general cultures of Spanish-speaking peoples in Europe or Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6398 Studies in World Literature (3 semester credit hours) Studies in literatures from specific regions, ethnic groups, and nationalities within and outside the United States. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 7300 Writing Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced techniques and processes necessary for producing publishable scholarly writing in the discipline of literary studies. Prerequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
LIT 7308 Advanced Studies in Literary Forms and Genres (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in various literary genres, either individually or in relation to each other. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
LIT 7309 Seminar in Literary Movements (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the nature of intellectual and artistic movements, with emphasis on how they affect literary expression. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 7322 Advanced Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) An intensive investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of the art and craft of literary translation focusing on the techniques and processes involved in producing English translations of poetic, dramatic, fictional, and essayistic works. Students are expected to produce publishable translations. Discussions will include the history and theory of literary translation. Prerequisite: LIT 6380 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 7340 Seminar in Ancient and Early Modern Literature (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the literature and culture of selected periods in the Western tradition. May focus on ancient, medieval, or early modern periods. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
LIT 7349 Advanced Topics in Creative Writing (3 semester credit hours) Advanced workshop investigating the theory, aesthetics, and creation of creative writing. The course may focus on poetry, short stories, scripts, or other genres. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 7350 Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Literature (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the literature and cultures of the nineteenth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
LIT 7360 Seminar in Twentieth-Century Literature (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the literatures and cultures of the twentieth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
LIT 7372 Seminar in Literature and Society (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies of the values and concerns of various social groups through the analysis of literary texts; consideration of the role of literature and the writer in given societies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
LIT 7383 Teaching First-Year Writing (3 semester credit hours) Covers both the methods of teaching first-year writing and pedagogical theories of modern composition. Enrollment required for teaching assistants assigned to sections of Rhetoric 1302, but not limited to such students. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
LIT 7390 Independent Study (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the Ph.D. degree. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 7391 Seminar in Translation Studies (3 semester credit hours) The investigation of the field of Translation Studies. Topics may include the anthropological foundation of translation; the study of crossing cultural barriers; translation methodologies as a model for interdisciplinary research; communication as translation; translation and reading; historical aspects of translation; models of cultural differences; critical approaches to the theories of translation from the Greeks to the present; and specific research and translation projects. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or LIT 6380. (3-0) R
LIT 8303 Independent Readings in Literature (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (15 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 8305 Field Exam Preparation (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course for the preparation of field examinations. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum or fewer depending on the individual student's degree plan). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 8V01 Dissertation Proposal (3-9 semester credit hours) Independent study course for the preparation of the dissertation proposal. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum or fewer depending on the individual student's degree plan). Instructor consent required. ([3-9]-0) R
LIT 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R