MAIS 5300 Foundations of Interdisciplinary Inquiry (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a comprehensive, graduate-level introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies and functions as a core course for the Masters of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MAIS) degree at UT-Dallas. It will include attention to the history of interdisciplinary studies, models of interdisciplinary inquiry, and the ways in which interdisciplinary studies draws from yet is distinct from traditional disciplines. It will guide students in the development of an interdisciplinary plan for research and writing. (3-0) S
MAIS 5301 Seminar on Close Relationships (3 semester credit hours) An examination of the psychological, sociological, economic, and philosophical approaches to the study of close relationships. Specific issues that will be discussed include male-female differences, intimacy and self-disclosure, loneliness, conflict. (3-0) Y
MAIS 5302 Capstone Seminar (3 semester credit hours) The seminar includes discussion of interdisciplinary theory and preparation for a research project. Must be taken in the student's next-to-last semester. Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
MAIS 5303 Research Project (3 semester credit hours) Completion of an interdisciplinary research project. Prerequisites: MAIS 5302 and good academic standing and instructor consent required. (3-0) S
MAIS 5320 Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 semester credit hours) Consult with an advisor to determine the appropriateness for one's degree plan and specialty areas of study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
MAIS 5321 Library Research Skills (3 semester credit hours) Through this online course, graduate students will develop the skills to identify what information is needed for their research, how to find and evaluate scholarly resources, and how to organize the information for a thesis or dissertation. Primary, secondary, and tertiary sources; identifying appropriate research methodologies; assessing quantity, quality and relevance of search results and citation management will be included. (3-0) Y
MAIS 5335 Crisis Communication in Schools and Organizations (3 semester credit hours) An advanced in depth look into crisis communication, strategies and management focusing on organizational and educational institutional responses in crisis situations. Specific past crisis events are examined, positive and negative responses are dissected, lessons learned are investigated and future management strategies for organizations, agencies and schools are formulated so that students may take these skills back to their respective current and future employment environments and implement these strategies. (3-0) Y
MAIS 5V03 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Students participate in self-directed experiential learning. They are required to reflect and research issues in a contemporary workplace site. Students undertake a new learning experience at a faculty-supervised work situation in business, government, or social service agency, arts institution, or other setting appropriate to the student's concentration. An internship provides exposure to a professional working environment, application of theory to working realities, and an opportunity to test skills and clarify goals in a specific field. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
MAIS 5V04 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor and MAIS advisor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
MAIS 5V38 Co-Op Education (1-3 semester credit hours) Students completing this course will integrate academic learning with their co-op work experience. To attain this goal, students will keep a journal of their workplace experience, maintain contact with the instructor, and prepare a written report that focuses on the accomplishments and insights gained through their co-op experience. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S