LIT 5348 Topics in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6300 Proseminar in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the key concepts, issues, and debates in the discipline of literary studies. (3-0) Y
LIT 6304 Literary Themes (3 semester credit hours) Examination of specific themes as they appear in various literary works and traditions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6306 Major Authors (3 semester credit hours) Study of one or more major literary figures, such as Dante, Chaucer, Milton, Cervantes, Goethe, Blake, Balzac, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Mann, Eliot, Pound, Woolf, Faulkner, Paz, or Borges. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6308 Literary Forms and Genres (3 semester credit hours) Examination of literary forms and/or genres, either individually or in relation to each other. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6309 Literary Periods and Movements (3 semester credit hours) Examination of literary periods (e.g., Romanticism) and/or movements (e.g., the Harlem Renaissance). May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6315 Literary and Critical Theory (3 semester credit hours) Examination of currents and debates in literary and/or critical theory. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6319 Translation Theory (3 semester credit hours) Examination of currents and debates in translation theory. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6320 Poetry Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced creative techniques and processes necessary for producing effective poems. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6321 Fiction Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced creative techniques and processes necessary to producing effective short stories. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6322 (VPAS 6352) Creating Television and Movie Scripts (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing techniques and processes necessary for producing movie, multimedia, video, and television scripts. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6323 (VPAS 6353) Creating Plays and Musicals (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing creative techniques and processes necessary for producing plays and musicals. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6325 Nonfiction Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced techniques and processes necessary for producing effective nonfiction. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6326 Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop designed to provide students with a model not only of literary interpretation but also of an interdisciplinary approach to literature through the act of translation. Emphasis is on the translation of literary works into English. Issues involved in this process will form the basis of the workshop's theoretical component. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
LIT 6331 Rhetoric (3 semester credit hours) Examination of topics in the study of rhetoric such as ethos, histories of rhetoric, rhetorical theory, visual rhetoric, the rhetoric of technology and science, the Sophists, rhetoric as epistemic, and the work of key figures (e.g., Baudrillard, Burke, Foucault, Spivak). May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6332 Teaching First-Year Writing (3 semester credit hours) Covers both the methods of teaching first-year writing and pedagogical theories of modern composition. Enrollment required for teaching assistants assigned to sections of Rhetoric 1302, but not limited to such students. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
LIT 6370 Literature and Philosophy (3 semester credit hours) Examination of philosophical questions and problems in literary works and/or literary study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6371 Literature, Science, and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the treatment of scientific concepts (e.g., relativity, evolution) and technological developments (e.g., computers, virtual reality) in literature. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6372 Literature, Culture, and Society (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the values and concerns of various social groups through a study of literary works; consideration of the role of literature and the writer in given societies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6377 Literature and the Other Arts (3 semester credit hours) Examination of literature and its relationship to the visual and/or performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6382 Latin American Literature (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the literatures of Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) T
LIT 6383 Chinese Literature (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the literatures of China. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6387 Modern Jewish Literature (3 semester credit hours) Study of modern Jewish literatures in multiple national contexts and languages, with emphasis on the interaction between modernity and vision of Jewish identities and traditions. (3-0) R
LIT 6388 Literature and the Holocaust (3 semester credit hours) Study of major literary works (novels, short stories, and poems) written under the impact of the Holocaust as well as literary theories responding to these works. Some emphasis placed on films and other works of visual art. (3-0) T
LIT 6392 Topics in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6393 Topics in Translation Studies (3 semester credit hours) Topics in the field of Translation Studies such as anthropological approaches to translation, the history of translation, translation and reading, and historical aspects of translation. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
LIT 6395 Independent Study (3 semester credit hours) Independent study under the supervision of a faculty member on a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Program consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 7300 Academic Writing Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced techniques and processes necessary for producing publishable scholarly writing in the discipline of literary studies. Prerequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
LIT 7321 Advanced Creative Writing Workshop (3 semester credit hours) An advanced workshop developing creative techniques and processes necessary to producing effective poetry, nonfiction, short stories, scripts, or other genres. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 7322 Advanced Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) An intensive investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of the art and craft of literary translation focusing on the techniques and processes involved in producing English translations of poetic, dramatic, fictional, and essayistic works. Students are expected to produce publishable translations. Discussions will include the history and theory of literary translation. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: LIT 6326 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 8303 Independent Readings in Literature (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (15 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 8305 Field Exam Preparation (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course for the preparation of field examinations. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum or fewer depending on the individual student's degree plan). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
LIT 8V01 Dissertation Proposal (3-9 semester credit hours) Independent study course for the preparation of the dissertation proposal. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum or fewer depending on the individual student's degree plan). Instructor consent required. ([3-9]-0) R
LIT 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R