BMEN 5375 (EECS 5375 and MECH 5308) Introduction to Robotics (3 semester credit hours) Fundamentals of robotics, rigid motions, homogeneous transformations, forward and inverse kinematics, velocity kinematics, motion planning, trajectory generation, sensing, vision, and control. Prerequisites: ENGR 2300 and (EE 4310 or BMEN 4310 or MECH 4310) or equivalent. (2-3) Y
BMEN 6302 (EECS 6302 and MECH 6317 and SYSM 6302) Dynamics of Complex Networks and Systems (3 semester credit hours) Design and analysis of complex interconnected networks and systems. Basic concepts in graph theory; Eulerian and Hamiltonian graphs; traveling salesman problems; random graphs; power laws; small world networks; clustering; introduction to dynamical systems; stability; chaos and fractals. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6324 (EECS 6324 and MECH 6324) Robot Control (3 semester credit hours) Dynamics of robots; methods of control; force control; robust and adaptive control; feedback linearization; Lyapunov design methods; passivity and network control; control of multiple and redundant robots; teleoperation. Prerequisite: EECS 6331 or MECH 6300 or SYSM 6307. (3-0) T
BMEN 6331 Regulation of Medical Devices and Diagnostics (3 semester credit hours) This course defines medical devices and introduces the historical background of relevant regulations, the organizations that regulate these products, and the pre-market, post-market, and sustaining design, manufacturing, clinical, reimbursement, regulatory, marketing and quality activities and practices required for compliance. This course covers both U.S. and international Medical Device Regulation. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6332 The Legal Business of Medical Devices (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the American legal system and build a solid understanding of healthcare and medical device business requirements. Students will learn about factors relevant to commercializing medical innovations such as, intellectual property, corporate matters, obtaining reimbursement, securities and anti-trust issues, off-label promotions, fraud and abuse matters, corporate compliance programs, liability issues, physician-patient relationships, physician distributorships, medical device tax, and the future impact of current acts on the medical device company. Students will also gain an understanding of how to strategically manage these factors to influence the success of the business. Prerequisite: BMEN 6331. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6333 Quality Management Systems and Compliance (3 semester credit hours) A good Quality Management System (QMS) assures that products meet specifications efficiently and effectively to gain customer satisfaction, and as a result, gain profitability. This course will cover pre/post market QMS requirements and expectations of performance, best practices in QMS development, QMS evaluation for different audiences, the cost of poor quality, and the role this plays on how to meet customer satisfaction. This course will also engage students in quality system internal audits and regulatory external audit facilitation and negotiation, writing responses to allegations of non-conformance for the regulatory agencies, and the consequences that can be expected when regulatory enforcement ensues. Department consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6334 Ethical and Legal Clinical Trial Considerations (3 semester credit hours) This course will examine the historical events that influenced the existing federal regulations that guide clinical research as well as the current ethical codes and guidelines pertaining to the use of animals and humans as research subjects. Students will explore the framework and principles of Good Clinical Practice (GCP) as it relates to the roles and responsibilities of various stakeholders like the FDA, Investigator, Sponsor, IRB and the study subject. They will learn the main principles guiding the conduct of ethical research, the importance of transparency, balancing incentives for engineering innovation, adverse events management and determining and enforcing appropriate safety levels. This course will also cover the current reimbursement environment for clinical trials and its impact on clinical use of devices. Department consent required. Prerequisite: BMEN 6331. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6335 Design for Human Use (3 semester credit hours) Medical device design must be controlled in a way that ensures its safety and fulfillment of its intended use. This course provides the engineering value of relevant regulation and guidance throughout the product life cycle and how that relates to product quality and ultimately, customer satisfaction. Students will learn how to evaluate and understand human needs as a basis for designing and engineering new technologies and the practical implementation of design controls, risk management, requirements engineering, transfer planning, configuration control, and records. Department consent required. Prerequisite: BMEN 6331. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6336 Regulatory Strategy and Submission (3 semester credit hours) Through interactive lectures and facilitated group projects, students gain an understanding of the regulatory pathways and how to develop and use a regulatory strategy to overcome barriers to entry in the medical device market. This course provides hands-on experience working with the regulations, guidance documents, and tools needed to develop an effective regulatory submission, including how to integrate regulatory strategy with product development and design control activities. This course will include U.S. regulatory pathways and a comparison to OUS pathways and evaluate the benefits of using a STED submission for global registrations. Prerequisite: BMEN 6331. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6337 Good Manufacturing Practices (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to the requirements, best practices, engineering problems and analysis related to the design, planning, control, and improvement of manufacturing and service operations. A wide range of topics are covered, such as: Bill of Materials, Device Master Files, Device History Records, production controls, process analysis, supply chain design, procurement and materials management, production scheduling, process risk management and product design for manufacturability. Classes will involve explaining concepts; working examples; discussing models of manufacturing systems, including transfer lines and flexible manufacturing systems; Manufacturing engineering validation master planning; evaluation and calculation of performance measures, including throughput, in-process inventory, and meeting production commitments; and real-time control of scheduling including effects of machine failure, set-ups, and other disruptions on system performance. Department consent required. Prerequisites: BMEN 6331 and BMEN 6333 (3-0) Y
BMEN 6341 Biostatistics (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to probability; joint, marginal and conditional distributions; entropy and relative entropy (Kullback-Leibler divergence); Markov processes and hidden Markov models; applications to specific problems such as sequence alignment, analysis of gene expression data and protein classification. (3-0) T
BMEN 6342 Biomaterials and Medical Devices (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the field of biomaterials used in the design of medical devices and to augmentreplace soft and hard tissues. Overview of current challenges and successes with implantable devices, biomaterials properties, clinical requirements, clinical applications and cases, and in-vivo behavior of different classes of natural and synthetic materials. Analysis of biological response and biocompatibility, degradation and failure processes of implantable biomaterialsdevices. Students will become familiar with several classes of biomaterials and their current clinical applications. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6345 Self-Assembly of Biomaterials (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the emerging and evolving fields of self-assembly and nanoengineered biomaterials. Upon completion of the course students will understand the principles of self-assembly and self-organization of small molecules (e.g. thiols and surfactants), macromolecules (e.g. polymers, block co-polymers, proteins, DNA), and colloidal dispersions. Students will also learn the important role weak non-covalent forces (e.g. ionic bonds, hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic interactions) play in determining the structure of self-assembled systems. Finally students will learn how scientists and engineers are designing and exploiting the principles of self-assembly to produce functional biomaterials and the techniques to characterize these biomaterials from the nano to macro level. Topics to be covered include the following: Introduction to Self-Assembly; Intermolecular and Colloidal forces; Self-assembly in solutions micelles, bilayers, liquid crystals, emulsions; Colloidal Self-Assembly; Self-Assembly at Interfaces; Biomimetic Self-Assembly; Nanoparticles; and Nanostructured Films. Prerequisites: BIOL 2311 and CHEM 1312 and MATH 2417 and PHYS 2325 and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6351 Biomedical Microdevices (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to concepts of medical microdevices; design methodology and its applications for diagnostics and therapeutics. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6355 (MSEN 6355) Nanotechnology and Sensors (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the concept of nanotechnology, in context toward designing sensors/diagnostic devices. Identifying the impact of nanotechnology in designing "state-of-the art" sensors for healthcare applications. Topics include: nanotechnology and nanomaterials, principles of sensing and transduction and heterogeneous integration toward sensor design. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6360 (CHEM 5340 and MSEN 5340) Advanced Polymer Science and Engineering (3 semester credit hours) Polymer structure-property relations, Glass transition temperature and mechanical properties of polymers, Thermoplastics, thermosets, and elastomers, morphology of polymers, rheology of polymers, biodegradable and biocompatible polymers for drug delivery and tissue engineering applications. (3-0) R
BMEN 6372 (MECH 6314 and SYSM 6306) Engineering Systems: Modeling and Simulation (3 semester credit hours) This course will present principles of computational modeling and simulation of systems. General topics covered include: parametric and non-parametric modeling; system simulation; parameter estimation, linear regression and least squares; model structure and model validation through simulation; and, numerical issues in systems theory. Techniques covered include methods from numerical linear algebra, nonlinear programming and Monte Carlo simulation, with applications to general engineering systems. Modeling and simulation software is utilized (MATLAB/SIMULINK). (3-0) Y
BMEN 6373 (EEBM 6373) Anatomy and Human Physiology for Engineers (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an introduction to anatomy and human physiology for engineers and other non-life scientists. Topics include nervous system, muscle and cardiac function, digestive system, and immune system. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6374 (EEBM 6374) Genes, Proteins and Cell Biology for Engineers (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an introduction to principles of modern molecular and cellular biology for engineers and other non-life scientists. Topics include genes, protein structure and function, organization of cells and cellular trafficking. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6375 Techniques in Cell and Molecular Biology (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to cell and molecular laboratory techniques including DNA recombinant technology, protein biochemistry, structural biology, and molecular biology. Intended for engineers and other non-life-scientists. Prerequisite: BMEN 6374 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6376 (EEBM 6376) Lecture Course in Biomedical Applications of Electrical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an introduction to different areas of biomedical applications of electrical engineering. A special emphasis will be placed on research topics that are actively pursued at UT Dallas. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6377 Introduction to Protein Engineering (3 semester credit hours) Development of proteins with practical utility will be discussed, using examples and case studies taken from the current literature. Prerequisite: BMEN 6374 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6378 Mechanobiology for Engineers (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce principles by which mechanical forces regulate biological processes in cells and tissues in healthy and diseased states. In order to understand mechanobiology from an engineering perspective, this course will review aspects of solid and fluid mechanics, cell biology, intracellular polymer mechanics, cellular mechanics and mechanotransduction, disease mechanisms, biological modeling and research methodology. In addition, the impact of mechanobiology in bone, arteries and various cell types will be discussed. (3-0) T
BMEN 6380 (EEBM 6380) Introduction to Cellular Microscopy (3 semester credit hours) Image formation, diffraction, labeling techniques, fluorescence and image processing techniques will be introduced. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6381 (EEBM 6381) Advanced Concepts in Microscopy (3 semester credit hours) Continuation of BMEN 6380, with emphasis on advanced approaches such as vectorial diffraction, stochastic aspects of image formation and analysis. Prerequisite: BMEN 6380 or EEBM 6380 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6382 Systems Biology (3 semester credit hours) An interdisciplinary approach to biology. It explores experimental, theoretical, and computational approaches from mathematics, physics, and engineering for the understanding and analysis of biological problems. Prerequisite: BMEN 6374 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6385 Biomedical Signals and Systems (3 semester credit hours) Time and Frequency domain analysis; continuous-time and discrete-time signals, linear-time invariant (LTI) systems and their properties. Frequency analysis of: LTI systems, continuous-time signals (Fourier series and Fourier transform) and discrete time signals [discrete Fourier series and discrete-time Fourier transform (DTFT)]. Sampling and signal reconstruction. Discrete Fourier transform (DFT) and fast Fourier transform (FFT). Filter design. MATLAB-based tutorials. Prerequisites: ENGR 2300 and EE 4310. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6386 Biological Processes: Modeling and Simulation (3 semester credit hours) Introduces fundamental principles to develop and simulate mathematical and computer models of biological systems. Topics include modeling principles [continuous (differential equation models), discrete (Boolean network and Markov model), probabilistic (Bayesian network) and stochastic models] and model optimization. Methods to simulate mathematical biological models using computer programming (software: MATLAB) will be introduced. Prerequisite: MATH 2419 or equivalent. (3-1) Y
BMEN 6387 (BIOL 5376) Applied Bioinformatics (3 semester credit hours) Genomic information content; data searches and multiple sequence alignment; mutations and distance-based phylogenetic analysis; genomics and gene recognition; polymorphisms and forensic applications; nucleic-acid and protein array analysis; structure prediction of biological macromolecules. Prerequisites: At least one semester of undergraduate statistics and probability, and two semesters of undergraduate calculus or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
BMEN 6388 (EECS 6336 and MECH 6313 and SYSE 6324) Nonlinear Systems (3 semester credit hours) Differential geometric tools, feedback linearization, input-output linearization, output injection, output tracking, stability. Prerequisite: EECS 6331 or MECH 6300 or SYSM 6307 or equivalent. (3-0) T
BMEN 6389 (BIOL 6385) Computational Biology (3 semester credit hours) Machine learning and probabilistic graphical models have become essential tools for analyzing and understanding complex systems biology data in biomedical research. This course introduces fundamental principles and methods behind the most important high throughput data analysis tools. Applications will cover molecular evolutionary models, DNA/protein motif discovery, gene prediction, high-throughput sequencing and microarray data analysis, computational modeling gene expression regulation, and biological pathway and network analysis. Prerequisite: Some background in elementary statistics/probability or introductory bioinformatics, or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6390 (BIOL 6390) Metabolic Pathways for Translational Medicine (3 semester credit hours) This course will provide extensive discussion of major metabolic pathways in human and other experimental models of human diseases with emphasis on biochemical understanding, roles and effects of the pathways in the entire cellular network, and potential application to medicine. Prerequisite: BMEN 6389 or BIOL 6385 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
BMEN 6391 (BIOL 6373) Proteomics (3 semester credit hours) Protein identification, sequencing, and analysis of post-translational modifications by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry; determination of protein three dimensional structure by x-ray crystallography; its use in drug design; understanding protein interactions and function using protein chip microarrays. Prerequisites: one semester of undergraduate biochemistry and one semester of graduate biochemistry or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
BMEN 6392 Bioinstrumentation and Systems (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to bioinstrumentation, biomedical signal acquisition, isolation, amplification, and conditioning, biopotential electrodes and amplifiers for ECG, EEG, ENG and EMG. Vascular system dynamics. Transmission and propagation of EM and RF signals around tissue. Biomedical applications. Prerequisite: BMEN 6385. (3-0) Y
BMEN 6393 Neural Engineering Methods and Applications (3 semester credit hours) This course will cover Neural Engineering methods used for neural ensamble recording and neural stimulation. Electrodes and devices used in Brain Machine Interfacing (BMI), deep brain stimulation (DBS), spinal cord stimulation (SCS), transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS), and Peripheral Nerve Interfacing will be covered. Advanced techniques including modulation by optogenomics and the development of new voltage fluorescent probes will be explained. The use of neural prosthesis for the restoration of sensory and motor function will be reviewed. This course will help students to understand a wide range of methodology currently use to interrogate and modulate the nervous system. Recommended prerequisites: (BMEN 3330 or equivalent) and (BMEN 3350 or equivalent). (3-0) Y
BMEN 6394 Medical Imaging Techniques and Image Processing (3 semester credit hours) In this course, the fundamental physical principals of modern medical imaging techniques will be covered, including x-ray, ultrasound, MRI, optical, nuclear, multi-modality imaging, and contrast agents. Students will also learn many common image processing methods, such as image reconstruction, filtering, segmentation, registration, and fitting. Recommended prerequisite: EE 3302 or equivalent. (3-0) R
BMEN 6V40 Individual Instruction in Biomedical Engineering (1-9 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit. Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
BMEN 6V70 Research in Biomedical Engineering (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
BMEN 6V71 Seminars in Biomedical Engineering (1-3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Department consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
BMEN 6V87 Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering (1-9 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit. Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
BMEN 6V98 Thesis (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
BMEN 7188 Advanced Seminars in Biomedical Engineering (1 semester credit hour) Selected topics in biomedical engineering. May be repeated for credit (3 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (1-0) R
BMEN 7387 Independent Scientific Research in Biomedical Engineering (3 semester credit hours) This course deals with both the theoretical and practical aspects of designing dissertation research and successfully defending the design in the dissertation proposal and /or dissertation examination. The research design component will be targeted to a specific independent project with the intent that the project will develop into the student's dissertation. The primary focus is on developing a sound research design with appropriate controls and statistical power analyses. May be repeated (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) S
BMEN 7V87 Advanced Topics in Biomedical Engineering (1-9 semester credit hours) Independent scientific research in Bioengineering. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
BMEN 8V40 Advanced Instruction in Biomedical Engineering (1-9 semester credit hours) Advanced research in biomedical engineering. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Department consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
BMEN 8V70 Advanced Research In Biomedical Engineering (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
BMEN 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S