CRIM 6300 Proseminar in Criminology (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to graduate study in criminology through exposure to topics such as academic publishing, formulation of research questions, writing of literature reviews, career options in the discipline, professional ethics, data literacy, and vitae preparation. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6301 Research Design I (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an overview of the research enterprise and the study of data development strategies and techniques to facilitate effective statistical analysis, using practical criminological applications. Topics generally covered include: (1) issues and techniques in social science research with emphasis on philosophy of science, theory testing, and hypothesis formulation; (2) measurement and data collection strategies, reliability and validity of measures and results, sampling, surveys; and (3) examination of qualitative versus quantitative research techniques, working with observational data, field research issues, and triangulation. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6303 Etiology of Crime and Criminality (3 semester credit hours) Examines the history of criminological thought incorporating the major works of such theorists as Bentham, Beccaria, Marx, Durkheim, Lombroso, Shaw and McKay, Sutherland, Becker, and Merton. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6307 Measures and Correlates of Crime (3 semester credit hours) Examines the major sources of data on crime and criminals and the limitations of such data. Review patterns and trends over time in specific forms of crime; identify geographic and demographic correlates according to each data source. (3-0) R
CRIM 6308 Victimology (3 semester credit hours) Examines risks and consequences of crime for its victims. Issues considered include victim-offender relationships, characteristics of victims, the nature of the injuries they experience, and criminal justice procedures that involve them. (3-0) R
CRIM 6309 Communities and Crime (3 semester credit hours) Examines the trends and sources of crime and social disorder across communities. The course emphasizes relationships among crime, fear of crime, neighborhood change, neighborhood responses to crime, and public policies. (3-0) R
CRIM 6310 Delinquency and Juvenile Justice (3 semester credit hours) Examines youth crime, child victimization, and juvenile justice. Students learn the processes by which specific behaviors are identified as delinquent, the historical evolution of the juvenile justice, and current policies and practices. (3-0) R
CRIM 6311 Crime and Justice Policy (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to crime and the efforts to control crime through public policy. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6312 Legal Aspects of Justice Administration (3 semester credit hours) Examines key legal issues relevant to justice administration. Topics include contemporary issues in criminal law and procedure, civil liability, asset forfeiture, administrative discipline, constitutional rights of justice practitioners, employment conditions and standards, and sexual harassment policy. Department consent required. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6313 Corrections (3 semester credit hours) Examines the history, forms, and functions of correctional philosophies, institutions, programs, and policies. Topics include the structure and functions of prisons and jails, community corrections, intermediate sanctions, and the growth of correctional control in modern society. (3-0) R
CRIM 6314 Policing (3 semester credit hours) Provides historical, social and political analysis of the roles and functions of policing in America. (3-0) R
CRIM 6315 Violent Crime (3 semester credit hours) Examines the sources and patterns of violent offending across time and space. Topics include conceptions and typologies of violent crimes and offenders, victim-offender relations, and efforts to predict and control violent offending. (3-0) R
CRIM 6317 Courts (3 semester credit hours) Examines the objectives, institutions and processes involved in the adjudication of offenders. Topics address the structure and function of the judicial system and principal court actors. (3-0) R
CRIM 6323 Violence and Gun Control (3 semester credit hours) Examines the facts surrounding one of the most heated issues of our times: the relationship between guns, violence and gun control. The course provides a comprehensive criminological view of the topic rather than a political or legal one. Students will learn about evaluating evidence, the "stricter gun law" debate, flaws in arguments on both sides of issue, as well as tricks used by advocates to persuade people to agree with their point of view. (3-0) R
CRIM 6332 (GISC 6331) GIS Applications in Criminology (3 semester credit hours) Examines spatial distributions of crime, criminals, and criminal justice interventions. Students conduct spatial analysis of point patterns and area-based data in studies of the locations of crime events and rates, offenders, police patrolling practices, judicial districts and community corrections and how they relate to physical and social characteristics of neighborhoods. (3-0) R
CRIM 6348 Drugs and Crime (3 semester credit hours) This course provides students with a survey of the historical context of the legislative initiatives that have been attempted to combat the use of drugs, the relationship between drug use/abuse and crime, and the public policy problems surrounding the control of drugs. (3-0) R
CRIM 6351 (PA 6351) Introduction to Homeland Security (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a comprehensive overview of the structure of Homeland Security, its origins and developing trends and challenges. Selected material from Congress, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Justice, local, state, and other government and non-government agencies will be studied. Examines both historical and contemporary Homeland Defense and Security issues. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6381 Issues in Criminology (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Consult with an advisor to determine the appropriateness for one's degree plan and specialty areas of study. Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
CRIM 6390 Administration of Justice Agencies (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on the administrative structures, processes, and behavior in managing criminal justice agencies. The focus is on human and financial resources, organizational theory, decision-making, productivity, measurement and enhancement, organizational design, and ethics and culture in police, courts, and correctional agencies. (3-0) R
CRIM 6395 Contemporary Issues in Justice Administration (3 semester credit hours) This course explores and surveys classical and recent literature in criminal justice focused on various critical issues confronting the justice system. The course studies the trends, contemporary topics, and reform movements currently prominent in the fields of policing, courts and corrections. (3-0) R
CRIM 6399 Capstone in Justice Administration (3 semester credit hours) The capstone in justice administration is the culminating experience for graduating Executive MS-JAL students. Students integrate knowledge from across the criminology and public affairs curriculum in an independent, faculty-directed, semester-long applied research project. (3-0) Y
CRIM 6V01 Independent Study (1-9 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. Student performance is assessed by instructor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for elective credit. Can be applied for credit additionally at the discretion of the program on a case-by-case basis. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
CRIM 6V92 Research Workshop in Applied Criminology (1-9 semester credit hours) Students join a faculty member in a group research project. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
CRIM 6V96 Master Thesis Research (1-6 semester credit hours) Students conduct masters level research project under the supervision of faculty. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
CRIM 6V97 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for a student's internship. Internships must be related to the student's course work. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
CRIM 6V98 Analytical Writing Research (1-9 semester credit hours) Students perform independent research under the supervision of faculty. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: EPPS 6313 and EPPS 6316 or equivalent, plus a good working knowledge of OLS Regression and instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
CRIM 7300 Advances in Criminology Theory (3 semester credit hours) Examines contemporary criminological theories and the degree to which research has provided empirical support for explanations of crime and criminality. (3-0) Y
CRIM 7301 Seminar in Criminology Research and Analysis (3 semester credit hours) Examines a variety of quantitative methods and procedures used in criminology research. Students will plan and execute an independent research project. Working topic for dissertation and dataset is preferred. Prerequisites: EPPS 6313 and EPPS 6316 or equivalent, plus a good working knowledge of OLS Regression and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
CRIM 7305 Professional Development in Criminology (3 semester credit hours) This course covers career development for criminology doctoral students. Topics include career planning and options, curriculum vitae preparation, college/university teaching, academic publishing and writing, research and grant strategies, and professional ethics and responsibilities. (3-0) Y
CRIM 7310 Advanced Quantitative Methods in Criminology (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to be an extension to CRIM 7301. Quantitative research techniques not covered in 7301 will be addressed in depth as they apply to longitudinal and multilevel criminological research. Topics may include, but are not limited to, structural equation modeling (SEM), multilevel growth curve modeling, growth mixture models, panel regression, propensity score matching, and latent class analysis. Topics may vary by semester and may be tailored to fit students' research needs. Recommended prerequisite: Students should have a firm understanding of varying regression techniques, etc., prior to enrolling. Prerequisites: CRIM 7301 with a B or better and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
CRIM 7315 Evidence-Based Crime Prevention (3 semester credit hours) This course explores relationships between crime policy and empirical evaluation research. Students will learn to critically analyze empirical evidence regarding specific criminal justice and crime-related policies, identify factors that influence policymaking, and describe challenges associated with evaluation research of crime-focused programs. (3-0) Y
CRIM 7342 Qualitative Criminology (3 semester credit hours) Examines ethnography and other qualitative approaches to studying crime, criminals, and criminal justice, particularly participant observation and informant and respondent interviewing. Topics include phenomenology, case study, in-depth interviewing, ethnomethodology, conversation analysis, historical methods, gaining access, sampling, data collection and analysis, and legal and ethical concerns. (3-0) R
CRIM 7351 Advanced Criminological Theory Seminar (3 semester credit hours) Course focuses on various criminological theories. Consult with an advisor to determine the appropriateness for one's degree plan and specialty areas of study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: CRIM 6303 and CRIM 7300 and department consent required. (3-0) R
CRIM 7381 Special Topics in Criminology (3 semester credit hours) Consult with an advisor to determine the appropriateness for one's degree plan and specialty areas of study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
CRIM 8V02 Comprehensive Exam Preparation (1-9 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's preparation for the PhD Comprehensive Exams. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
CRIM 8V92 Independent Advanced Research (1-9 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and faculty supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) R
CRIM 8V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for a student's internship. Internships must be related to the student's course work. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
CRIM 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision of a student's dissertation research. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Open to PhD students only and instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) Y