EMAC 6191 Advanced Capstone Proposal Seminar (1 semester credit hour) This course concentrates on the capstone process. Students will learn how to identify and define an appropriate topic for research; will develop a bibliography and/or literature review; will plan the steps toward completing the capstone; and will write one or more drafts of the capstone proposal. Instructor consent required. (1-0) R
EMAC 6300 Theories of Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester credit hours) This course is an interdisciplinary study of the implications of interactive technology for the creation, dissemination, and impact of communication. Establishes basic theoretical concepts and principles underlying the graduate program in Emerging Media and Communication. (3-0) Y
EMAC 6337 Emerging Media and Media Psychology (3 semester credit hours) This course will synthesize the research on the psychological aspects of production and consumption of media across a variety of media, such as television, newspapers, film, and the Internet. This course will also examine the psychological aspects of various content genres, such as entertainment, news, and video games. Viewing media consumption through a psychological lens, this class may cover topics such as media and: social influence, motivation and emotion, unconscious processing, stereotyping and prejudice, social cognition, and group dynamics. Prerequisite: EMAC 6375 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
EMAC 6342 Digital Culture (3 semester credit hours) This course will examine the way that the digital network alters various cultural practices. Students will examine a range of institutions, practices, and values that are affected by the digital shift. Topics may include, privacy, legal practices, journalism, politics, and intellectual property. (3-0) Y
EMAC 6350 Emerging Media and Identity (3 semester credit hours) This course develops a critical approach to the interplay between emerging media and social and individual identities, with a focus on gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, disability, class, age, and nationality. Topics will include how such identities are represented in media and how people use media to reshape such representations. Prerequisite: EMAC 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
EMAC 6365 Journalism and the Digital Network (3 semester credit hours) This course will examine the ways in which the digital network has (and by extension has not) transformed the work of reporting, filtering, and creating the news. (3-0) Y
EMAC 6372 Approaches to Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on the conceptual study of emerging media. Course may explore the theoretical, political, technological, cultural, cognitive, and historical forces which inform the way media and communication develop. (3-0) R
EMAC 6373 Emerging Media Studio I (3 semester credit hours) This course explores media production across multiple media. Students work in teams to develop meta-media projects in a variety of content delivery environments. Class will require students to develop a range of rhetorical (text, audio) and visual (image, video) strategies appropriate for emerging media. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) Y
EMAC 6374 Digital Textuality (3 semester credit hours) This course will combine theory and practice to focus on shifts in text, image, and sound. Students will become acquainted with the influence of the digital on forms of textuality and put theory into practice by communicating ideas through multiple media forms. (3-0) Y
EMAC 6375 Social Science Perspectives of Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces the basic set of knowledge and skills required for conducting rigorous research in emerging media and communication from various approaches. The concepts, strategies, methods, and skills that students will acquire in this course should help in understanding the implications and limitations of research reported by others, and to conduct and publish research in students' chosen area of inquiry. Methods covered might include qualitative, quantitative, and/or ethnographic approaches. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) Y
EMAC 6381 Special Topics in Emerging Media and Communication (3 semester credit hours) A course dedicated to current issues, research problems, and special projects in emerging media and communication. Topics will vary and may include distributed, mobile, time-shifted, interactive, and personal media. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
EMAC 6383 Emerging Media Studio II (3 semester credit hours) Advanced collaborative workshop devoted to the creation of sophisticated communications employing multiple media platforms. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (0-3) R
EMAC 6391 Advanced Capstone Workshop (3 semester credit hours) Students propose, develop, and execute an advanced creative and/or research project exploring the Emerging Media and Communication. This course is required of all degree candidates in Emerging Media and Communication and is restricted to students who are enrolled in their last long semester. Instructor consent required. (3-0) S