COMD 5340 Articulation Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation, and treatment of articulation disorders. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only. (3-0) Y
COMD 5341 Audiology (3 semester credit hours) Clinical application and interpretation in audiology. Emphasis on instrumentation and calibration considerations for air and bone conduction test, speech audiometry, and some information on cerumen management, infection control, and basic masking principles. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 5344 Anatomy and Physiology of Speech and Hearing (3 semester credit hours) Study of anatomic and physiologic mechanisms underlying speech: respiration, phonation, and articulation. Overview of the peripheral auditory system. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only. (3-0) S
COMD 6101 Childhood Apraxia of Speech (1 semester credit hour) Current research topics in the assessment and management of children of all ages with childhood apraxia of speech. Includes recent developments in prosody, oral motor therapy, profiling characteristics, articulatory error consistency, augmentative communication, integral stimulation intervention, and diagnostic criteria. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 6320 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6102 Dysphagia in Public Schools (1 semester credit hour) Current research topics in dysphagia assessment and management of children of all ages in the public school setting. Includes program development, legislative information, treatment plans in the IEP, and ethical considerations. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6103 Research in Pediatric TBI (1 semester credit hour) Current research topics in the assessment and management of children of all ages with traumatic brain injury (TBI). Includes clinical characteristics of acute dysphagia in children with TBI, recovery of memory function, articulatory function, executive function, and inference comprehension skills in children with TBI. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 6377 and COMD 7378 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6104 Dysphagia in Infancy (1 semester credit hour) Assessment and management of infants and with feeding and swallowing impairments. Include review of anatomy and physiology of suck/swallow/breathe triad, diagnostic and test procedures in the NICU and hospital setting, clinical feeding evaluation of infants in the NICU and hospital, therapeutic treatment strategies for infants with dysphagia, special medical populations, and breast feeding. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6105 Professional Writing (1 semester credit hour) Professional reports, and professional writing covering behavioral objectives, discharge planning, and report formats. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6106 Medical SLP (1 semester credit hour) Medical terminology and scope of practice of the medical SLP. Topics include assessment of aphasia, cognitive rehabilitation after TBI, diagnostic approaches to dementia, communication impairment and management of dementia, assessment and management of dysphagia, voice disorders, head and neck cancer, psychogenic communication disorders, issues in geriatric medicine and drug induced communication and swallowing disorders. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6107 Dementia (1 semester credit hour) Diagnosis, treatment, and current best practice in the management of the dementias. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 6377 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6108 Pulmonary Issues (1 semester credit hour) Issues related to respiration and swallowing coordination in normal aging and patients with specific respiratory conditions (i.e., aspiration pneumonia, COPD, Parkinsonism, patients on mechanical ventilation). Normal and disordered respiratory systems, and assessment/management considerations for patients with specific respiratory issues are discussed. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6109 Trachs and Vent (1 semester credit hour) Communication, respiration and swallowing issues/considerations as they relate to patients who require tracheostomy tubes and/or ventilators. Normal and disordered respiratory systems, oral and nonoral communication and assessment/management of dysphagia. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6110 Pediatric Feeding (1 semester credit hour) Assessment and management of infants and children of all ages with feeding and swallowing impairments. Includes recent developments in the field of swallowing disorders including advances in technology, surgery and pharmacology, and management of pediatric patients with dysphagia. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6111 Articulation Disorders (1 semester credit hour) Review of methods in articulation disorders. Required for students with undergraduate majors in speech language pathology who did not complete an undergraduate articulation course. If you have previously taken COMD 5340 or SPAU 3340 at UT Dallas you are not eligible for this module. This course is offered in an online format only. Department consent required. (1-0) S
COMD 6221 Voice Disorders (2 semester credit hours) Etiology of voice disorders and methods for assessing and modifying vocal behavior. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 6222 Stuttering (2 semester credit hours) Principles, methods, and procedures for assessment, and intervention of stuttering and associated disorders. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 6240 Professional Issues in Speech/Language Pathology (2 semester credit hours) Insights into the real-world and a means to master objectives as a professional in the field of speech-language pathology. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 6305 Speech Science (3 semester credit hours) Anatomy, physiology and functional organization of speech. Mechanisms of normal speech production and perception with applications to the clinical setting. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 6307 Language Acquisition (3 semester credit hours) Development of the phonological, morpho-syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic aspects of language, and consideration of the social, psychological, and cultural influences. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 6308 Assessment and Intervention of Language Impairments in Preschool and School-Age Children (3 semester credit hours) Assessment and intervention for children with diverse language impairments. Theoretical models, characteristics and correlates of pediatric language disorders; evidence-based approaches to screening, diagnosis, assessment, treatment, and prevention. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 6317 Language in Communication Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Basic processes underlying language disruptions in phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics. Biological and social aspects of language. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) R
COMD 6320 Motor Speech Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Anatomic and physiologic bases of the motor speech mechanism. Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation and treatment techniques for a variety of motor speech disorders in children and adults. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 6348 Counseling for Communication Disorders Professionals (3 semester credit hours) Psychological aspects of communication disorders in the context of the family system. Basic counseling and problem-solving skills to use as an adjunct to roles as communication disorders professionals. Emphasis on helping students to gain comfort and skill in coping with their clients' emotions and giving their clients constructive feedback. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) R
COMD 6377 Neurogenic Communication Disorders I (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to adult neurogenic communication disorders including neuropathology, assessment and diagnosis of aphasia, traumatic brain injury, right hemispheric impairment, and dementia. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 6378 Neurogenic Communication Disorders II (3 semester credit hours) Language and cognitive intervention for individuals with adult neurogenic communication disorders with management of special populations including stroke, traumatic brain injury, and dementia. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 6630 Internship in Communication Disorders (6 semester credit hours) Intensive internship program in a clinical setting. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. (6-0) S
COMD 6V98 Thesis (3-6 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([3-6]-0) S
COMD 7172 Laryngectomy (1 semester credit hour) Laryngectomy process from surgery to rehabilitation, laryngeal devices and how to use them. TEP, stoma, and trach care, and strategies to help patients master esophageal speech. Pass/Fail only. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (1-0) Y
COMD 7173 Methods in Pediatric Aural Habilitation - Part I (1 semester credit hour) Discussion of topics related to the management of children with hearing loss with specific reference to observation experiences. In addition, introduction to audiometric testing, hearing aids, assistive technology, and Deaf Culture is provided. There is also practice of basic sign language as the vocabulary relates to these topics. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated credit as topics vary (4 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (1-0) R
COMD 7174 Methods in Pediatric Aural Habilitation - Part II (1 semester credit hour) Speech, language, and learning assessments for students with hearing loss and auditory management skills. Troubleshooting hearing aids, cochlear implants, and assistive technology is reviewed. Development of sign language skills through group practice and community service projects. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (4 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (1-0) R
COMD 7204 Craniofacial Disorders (2 semester credit hours) Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation, and treatment of communication disorders found within the population with a craniofacial difference emphasizing cleft lip and palate and Velo-Cardio-Facial Syndrome. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 7207 Advanced Topics in Dysphagia (2 semester credit hours) Integration and application of dysphagia evaluation and treatment at an advanced level. Management of special populations including stroke, traumatic brain injury, and oral/largyngeal cancers. Family and patient counseling/education. Ethical issues and decision-making. Prerequisite: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 7208 Pediatric Dysphagia (2 semester credit hours) Evaluation and treatment of feeding and swallowing disorders in infants and children within various clinical settings. Normal and abnormal anatomy, common causes of pediatric dysphagia, clinical and instrumental assessment, evidence-based interventions, and pertinent research will be included. Prerequisites: COMD 7303 and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 7221 Preschool Intervention (2 semester credit hours) The purpose of this class is to develop the skills to select and use appropriate assessment methods for preschoolers in the areas of language and articulation/phonological process delays/disorders, to develop appropriate treatment plans and intervention procedures for this population based on assessment results, and to determine when it is appropriate to end services. Skills such as varied treatment and scaffolding approaches, appropriate programming options (group and individual therapy models, etc.), behavior management, considerations involving parents and ethics, and data collection will be emphasized in discussion. Prerequisite: COMD 7378 and department consent required. (2-0) Y
COMD 7301 Public School Methods (3 semester credit hours) Practices and procedures of implementing clinical skills in the public schools including applying federal and state laws to best practices in assessment and intervention. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 7302 Seminar in Aphasiology (3 semester credit hours) Current issues in neurolinguistics. Models of brain and language; classification, symptoms, and etiology of aphasia. Analysis of aphasic language with respect to phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7303 Dysphagia (3 semester credit hours) Anatomic and physiologic bases of normal swallowing. Etiology, symptomatology, evaluation and treatment techniques for swallowing disorders in children and adults. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7304 Seminar in Bilingual Speech-Language Pathology: Practice and Research (3 semester credit hours) Hands-on development of assessment and intervention with bilingual populations, specifically English Language Learners, as guided by clinical research evidence. Focus on dissecting, designing, and implementing cutting-edge basic and clinical research with bilingual speakers. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: COMD 7V56 or doctoral level and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7305 Communication and the Aging Brain (3 semester credit hours) Social and biological factors affecting language and communication in normal aging. Pathological changes in aphasia and dementia. Assessment and intervention strategies. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7306 Cultural Issues in Communication (3 semester credit hours) The multicultural nature of society, the role of language and communication in cultural identity, and how practice in the field of communicative disorders is tailored to cultural and linguistic diversity. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7308 Preliteracy Development (3 semester credit hours) Historical, cultural, theoretical, developmental, and pedagogical perspectives on the foundation for literacy in early childhood. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) T
COMD 7309 (HCS 7309) Neural Correlates of Human Cognition: Lesion-Deficit Models (3 semester credit hours) Correlation of brain lesions with cognitive deficits provides a human brain map of the essential anatomy underlying specific cognitive functions. The areas of cognition to be covered using this model include language, episodic memory, semantic memory, working memory, aspects of visuospatial functions, and higher-order motor planning. This knowledge base provides a key framework to combine with the findings of functional neuroimaging (fMRI, PET) in understanding how humans think. Cognitive deficits in patients (e.g., amnesia, aphasia, etc.) will be explained within this framework. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7323 Auditory-Verbal Methods (3 semester credit hours) Comprehensive survey of the auditory-verbal approach to the habilitation of children with hearing losses from infancy through the early elementary years; includes philosophy, research, special problems, auditory habilitation for older children, and specific methodology. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7324 (ACN 7324 and AUD 7324) Seminar in Cochlear Implants and Technology for Persons with Hearing Impairments (3 semester credit hours) Overview of prosthetic alternatives to conventional amplification for individuals with severe-to-profound hearing loss. Topics include candidacy determination, technology, programming/fitting of devices, aural (re)habilitation, and awareness of controversial areas related to cochlear implantation. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7325 Hearing and Deafness (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to issues, assessment, and management of hearing-impairment. Includes principles and prerequisites for intervention, amplification, aural habilitation programs, sign language, and Deaf culture. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7336 (HDCD 6365) Social Communication in Early Childhood Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Development of infant and toddler cognitive, social, communication and language skills are explored through major theories, current research and application to disorders. Emphasis is placed on functional assessments and intervention for children with social communication disorders functioning at the prelinguistic and emerging language stages. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
COMD 7339 (AUD 7339) Evidence-Based Practice in Communication Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Evidence-based practice as a paradigm for identifying, appraising, and using high-quality evidence to plan research studies and to make decisions about clinical practice. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7340 (HCS 7340) Research in Communication Sciences and Disorders: What, Why, and How (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to introduce doctoral students to scientific reasoning and methods using examples from the astonishing variety of research on human communication and its disorders. The goal is to provide students with conceptual tools (e.g., appraising research quality, matching research questions with research designs) and practical tools (e.g., managing literature searches, visualizing data) that they will need to transform an area of interest into a credible and feasible research study. Although the course includes basic statistical concepts that are useful in planning many research studies (e.g., relationships among Type I and Type II errors, effect size, and sample size), the emphasis is on statistical reasoning, not on specific statistical procedures. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7345 Pediatric Traumatic Brain Injury (3 semester credit hours) Assessment and management of acquired brain injury in children including linguistic, cognitive, psychosocial, educational, and neurological factors within a brain plasticity framework. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) T
COMD 7378 Assessment and Intervention of Language Impairments in Preschool and School-Age Children (3 semester credit hours) Assessment and intervention for children with diverse language impairments. Theoretical models, characteristics and correlates of pediatric language disorders; evidence-based approaches to screening, diagnosis, assessment, treatment, and prevention. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7379 (HCS 7379) Current Research in Autism (3 semester credit hours) Exploration of research theories related to Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) and the implications the disability has on an individual's learning, behavior and ability to process information. Topics may include: diagnostic classification, the evaluation process, current theoretical models, intervention models, research on potential causes and treatments, provisions for service delivery and areas of impairment. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7384 Augmentative Communication (3 semester credit hours) Components and dimensions of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems. AAC assessment and intervention for individuals with congenital and acquired complex communication needs. Includes hands on AAC equipment labs. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7389 Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Clinical characteristics, diagnosis, cognitive-linguistic evaluation discourse based assessment, and direct and indirect intervention of adults with different dementias such as Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementias, and vascular dementia. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) R
COMD 7392 Language Disorders, Learning Disabilities, and Dyslexia (3 semester credit hours) Theoretical models concerning the relationships among language disorders, learning disabilities, and dyslexia. Typical and atypical language and literacy development, definitional and diagnostic issues, and evidence-based treatment approaches for deficits in phonological processing, reading fluency, reading comprehension and compensatory meta-cognitive strategies. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
COMD 7V19 Birth-To-Three (1-3 semester credit hours) Assessment and treatment of infants and toddlers with a variety of speech, language, feeding, and oral-motor disorders. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) Y
COMD 7V56 Bilingual Speech-Language Assessment and Intervention (1-3 semester credit hours) Evaluation procedures and intervention strategies bilingual populations, specifically English Language Learners. Demographics, second language acquisition, acculturation, bilingual education models and differentiating between language difference vs. language disorders. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) T
COMD 7V62 Seminar in Autism (1-3 semester credit hours) Issues concerning the diagnosis and theories of autism. The development of social, communication/language, and cognitive skills in autism, as well as various therapeutic approaches. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) Y
COMD 7V68 Cognitive Rehabilitation (1-3 semester credit hours) Study of normal and impaired aspects of cognition as it relates to communication, including attention, memory, and executive function with an emphasis on current evidence supporting evaluation and treatment in the adult rehabilitation setting. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
COMD 7V73 Seminar in Hearing and Speech Science (1-6 semester credit hours) Current topics in hearing and speech science. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-6]-0) T
COMD 7V82 Special Topics in Communication Disorders (1-6 semester credit hours) Selected topics and current research in communication disorders. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
COMD 7V86 Special Topics in Child Language (1-6 semester credit hours) Current issues in child language emphasizing research on intervention practices. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y
COMD 7V90 Special Topics in Hearing and Speech Science (1-6 semester credit hours) Special topics and current research in hearing and speech science. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y
COMD 7V91 Methods in Communication Disorders (1-6 semester credit hours) Issues related to methods of assessment and intervention in communication disorders. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y
COMD 7V98 Directed Study in Communication Disorders (1-9 semester credit hours) Individualized program of study which may include reading, research implementation of clinical strategies and/or other designated activities. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) S
COMD 8V80 Research in Communication Disorders (1-9 semester credit hours) Supervised research experience in communication disorders. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-9]-0) S