HDCD 5350 Introduction to Child Life (3 semester credit hours) Study of the historical and theoretical perspectives on the development of the child life field. Exploration of the fundamental skills required to help children and families cope with the stress of the health care experience. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6310 Parent Education (3 semester credit hours) Skills needed by professionals to assess parents' strengths, resources and needs as well as to assist parents in understanding and promoting their children's development and adjustment. Includes effective communication techniques, basic counseling skills, and strategies to enhance parental effectiveness within the family and community. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6312 Atypical Development (3 semester credit hours) Disorders of development from conception through preschool. Effects of developmental impairments on the child, family, and the environment and prognosis and treatment options. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6315 Assessment Theory (3 semester credit hours) Latest developments in the field of assessment with young children, including behavioral observation, contextual multi-faceted assessment, and inclusion of the family. Training in traditional psychometrics and assessment tools/techniques. Prerequisite or Corequisite: HDCD 6319 and department consent required. (3-0) S
HDCD 6316 Developmental Assessment (3 semester credit hours) Play-based, curriculum-based, authentic assessment, family assessment protocols and the Functional Emotional Assessment Scale (FEAS). Use of Zero-to-Three diagnostic classification system (DC: 0-3) through differential diagnosis decision-making based on the results from the FEAS. Emphasis on clinical judgment/observation, interpretation and integration with assessment results. Prerequisites: HDCD 6315 and HDCD 6319 and department consent required. (3-0) S
HDCD 6319 (HCS 6357 and PSYC 6357) The Developing Child: Infants and Toddlers (3 semester credit hours) Theories of infant development in multiple content domains (cognitive, social, motor, language, physical) from conception to 24 months. Milestones of development and the understanding of relationship across domains and viewing the child as a "system" within the relationships. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6320 (HCS 6359 and PSYC 6320) The Developing Child: Toddler and Preschool Years (Two to Five Years) (3 semester credit hours) Relevant developmental theories and processes as well as skills acquired in motor, sensory-perceptual, cognitive, and social domains. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6325 Service Coordination of Community Resources (3 semester credit hours) Policies and procedures pertinent to service coordination of community resources in early intervention and family centered practices that help families become more independent. Identifying and screening relevant resources for children with special needs and their families. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6330 Families and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Child growth and development in the context of diverse families and cultures. Respect for cultural variations in family values and practices. Emphasizes the impact of the students' own culture, attitudes, and beliefs in working with families from diverse backgrounds. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) R
HDCD 6335 Intervention Paradigms (3 semester credit hours) Historical, theoretical, practice, and research bases for early intervention paradigms. Research methods to evaluate the effectiveness of early intervention programs and determine evidence-based practice. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6351 Play Matters (3 semester credit hours) Study of the importance of play for child development and its unique value as an evaluative and remedial tool in early intervention. Combines didactic and experiential elements to facilitate an integrated understanding of play-based approaches to working children and families. Includes weekly guided experience conducting a playgroup program for young children and their parents. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6355 Family Outreach and Assessment (3 semester credit hours) This practicum is designed to provide students, as part of a 2-3 person team, supervised experiences with young children from diverse backgrounds, at selected off-campus sites. Emphasis is on assessment, professional report writing, communicating assessment results orally to the families and other professionals, the referral process, and working together in 2-3 student teams. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
HDCD 6360 Behavior Management (3 semester credit hours) Observational methodology in behavioral assessment and a review of principles and procedures of behavior change from social learning and applied behavior analysis perspectives. Particular attention will be given to the design, implementation, and evaluation of behavioral interventions with children and families. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6365 (COMD 7336) Social Communication in Early Childhood Disorders (3 semester credit hours) Development of infant and toddler cognitive, social, communication and language skills are explored through major theories, current research and application to disorders. Emphasis is placed on functional assessments and intervention for children with social communication disorders functioning at the prelinguistic and emerging language stages. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) S
HDCD 6370 Intervention with Young Children (3 semester credit hours) Emphasis on methods and procedures for facilitating development of high risk, delayed or handicapped young children through relationship-based intervention. Reviews the contributions and perspectives of various early intervention disciplines. Students design and implement individualized intervention programs. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6385 (HCS 7376 and PSYC 6335) Child Psychopathology (3 semester credit hours) Major classes of childhood psychopathology manifested during infancy through adolescence. Normal personality development as a basis for identifying psychopathology. Issues of etiology, diagnosis, prognosis and social policy. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) R
HDCD 6390 Infant Mental Health (3 semester credit hours) How children's healthy development is impacted by the attachment-separation process and social-emotional development. Theoretical foundations for current practice. Addresses comtributing factors, including brain development, temperament, trauma, multiple separations, and parent attachment styles. Overview of intervention programs that address relationship disruptions or disorders. Prerequisite: BBSC majors only. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6395 Medical and Biobehavioral Factors in Early Childhood Disorders (3 semester credit hours) The normal functioning of organ systems and the most common malformations, dysfunction, and diseases. Effects of these disorders on the child and family. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 6V81 Special Topics in Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders (1-9 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. ([1-9]-0) Y
HDCD 7382 (HCS 7382 and PSYC 7382) Health Psychology (3 semester credit hours) Current theory and research concerning the social, cognitive, behavioral, and biological processes that shape experiences of physical health. The importance of these concepts for health behaviors, psychosomatics, and psychological adjustment to illness. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and department consent required. (3-0) Y
HDCD 7V20 Practicum/Internship in Early Childhood Disorders (3 or 6 semester credit hours) Supervised participation in on-site, early intervention, preschool and private therapy settings for young children with special needs. Includes professional activities such as conducting assessments, intervention, service coordination, and interdisciplinary teaming. Bi-weekly seminars address reflective practice as a tool for professional growth, ethical decision making in real situations, and professional use of self. Taken for 3 hours credit coincident with practicum placement and for 6 hours credit coincident with internship placement. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit with the supervisor's prior approval. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. ([3 or 6]-0) S
HDCD 7V80 Independent Research (1-6 semester credit hours) Individualized program of study which includes research and/or other designated activities. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
HDCD 7V98 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Individualized program of study which may include reading, research, and/or other designated activities. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: BBSC majors only and instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S