HMGT 6320 The American Healthcare System (3 semester credit hours) Examines the structure, financing and operation of the US healthcare industry. It analyzes how priorities are established, how services are organized and delivered, factors that influence the cost, quality and availability of healthcare, and opposing positions on the future of healthcare reform. (3-0) T
HMGT 6321 Strategic Leadership of Healthcare Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Explores how healthcare organizations can create sustainable competitive advantage in a volatile, reimbursement driven industry. Topics include external and internal environmental analysis, strategy formulation, organizational design and control and the impact of mergers and alliances on industry performance. Healthcare case studies are used to illustrate key concepts. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320. (3-0) T
HMGT 6322 Healthcare Cost Management and Control (3 semester credit hours) Examines how healthcare organizations allocate and report costs and use that information for managerial decision-making. Additional topics include how activity based costing can be used to more accurately determine the true cost of medical services and the use of the balanced scorecard to manage the conflicting imperatives of controlling costs and improving care. Prerequisite: ACCT 6201 or ACCT 6202. (3-0) T
HMGT 6323 (MIS 6317) Healthcare Informatics (3 semester credit hours) Examines the unique challenges of clinical and patient care delivery in the healthcare industry, including the role of data management, emerging data standards and information technology in improving the quality and cost associated with healthcare. The focus of the course will be on healthcare IT including issues related to governance, data integration, and selection and management of healthcare IT. Credit cannot be received for both courses, HMGT 6323 and MIS 6317. (3-0) T
HMGT 6324 (MECO 6352 and OB 6332 and OPRE 6396 and SYSM 6313) Healthcare Negotiation and Dispute Resolution (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the theories, processes, and practical techniques of negotiation so that students can successfully negotiate and resolve disputes in a variety of situations including interpersonal, group, and international settings. Emphasis is placed on understanding influence and conflict resolution strategies; identifying interests, issues, and positions of the parties involved; analyzing co-negotiators, their negotiation styles, and the negotiation situations; and managing the dynamics associated with most negotiations. Practical skills are developed through the use of simulations and exercises. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6325 (OPRE 6325) Healthcare Operations Management (3 semester credit hours) Explores how effectively managing and continuously improving the end-to-end heal care supply chain provides a competitive advantage. Topics include supply chain fundamentals, key players in the health care supply chain and their challenges, how the health care supply chain works, impact of technology on supply chain performance, and lean six sigma methodology. Simulations and case studies will reinforce the learning. (3-0) T
HMGT 6327 Information and Knowledge Management in Healthcare (3 semester credit hours) An interactive, experiential course in which students will utilize hands-on, practice-oriented opportunities to learn the core components of clinical information systems used by major health care systems in the United States. The course will include a substantial a lab-based component in which students will follow guided exercises and assignments using a leading EMR software. The semester-long course will include a mix of classroom lectures, lab-based software exercises, and case analyses. Prerequisite: HMGT 6323. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6329 Seminar in Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) This course features guest lecturers from the healthcare community giving students insight into many diverse career fields. Speakers will offer advice about career preparation, job interviewing, and important skills needed for success. Interaction with the speakers offers a valuable networking experience and an opportunity for mentoring advice. Employment opportunities discussed have included hospital administration, home health agencies, medical group practice, dental practices, governmental agencies, and consulting firms. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6330 Healthcare Law, Policy and Regulation (3 semester credit hours) This course examines how healthcare laws and regulations are enacted, and their impact on providers, payers, and patients. Topics include: Stark prohibitions on provider self-referral, federal regulation of fraud and abuse, the Emergency Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA), and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA). It also examines the process by which Congressional legislation is transformed into day-to-day industry regulation. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6331 Healthcare Economics (3 semester credit hours) This course applies the tools of economic analysis to the challenges and opportunities faced by managers and policy makers in the health sector. Topics covered include: measuring the benefits of healthcare, the role of insurance in spreading risk and altering incentives, the production of healthcare, price and non-price competition among providers, international comparisons of healthcare systems, and proposed policies that are intended to expand access and contain cost. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6332 Quality Improvement in Healthcare: Six Sigma and Beyond (3 semester credit hours) The course will explore applications of quality improvement measures to the healthcare environment. Applications including the Demming method, QI, and CQI will be studied. Application of other industrial quality improvement methodology including Six Sigma and Toyota Lean will be covered. Prerequisite: HMGT 6320. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6333 Ethics in Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) This course explores ethical issues specific to the healthcare industry including: fraud and abuse, rationing, uninsured treatment, the role of government, and end of life decisions. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6334 Healthcare Analytics (3 semester credit hours) The healthcare industry is yet to find ways to make best use of existing data to improve care, reduce costs, and provide more accessible care. This course introduces the use of business intelligence and decision sciences in healthcare industry. Students will develop a conceptual understanding of data mining techniques and decision analysis and hands-on experience with several analytics software which may include coding in R, Rattle, and WEKA (as needed and depending on availability). Prerequisite: OPRE 6301 or SYSM 6303. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6336 (ACCT 6336) Information Technology Audit and Risk Management (3 semester credit hours) Management's role in designing and controlling information technology used to process data is studied. Topics include the role of internal and external auditors in systems development, information security, business continuity, information technology, internet, change management and operations. Focus is placed on the assurance of controls over information technology risks and covers topics directly related to the Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) exam. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6380 (ACCT 6380) Internal Audit (3 semester credit hours) The course covers internal audit from a broad perspective that includes information technology, business processes, and accounting systems. Topics include internal auditing standards, risk assessment, governance, ethics, audit techniques, consulting and emerging internal audit issues. This is the first course leading to Internal Auditing Education Partnership (IAEP) Certificate and prepares students for the Certified Internal Auditor Exam. Students work on internal audits as part of class along with learning the latest internal audit techniques. (3-0) Y
HMGT 6382 (ACCT 6382) Advanced Auditing (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an indepth view of issues related to internal and external audit. Current and emerging issues such as Enterprise Risk Management, Advanced Communication Techniques, Managing the Audit Group, and Quality Assessment Reviews are all covered as part of the class. Weekly assignments and case studies are discussed in detail in class along with a major project with practitioners. The course covers topics necessary for students to work as an auditor in charge. Prerequisite: ACCT 6334 or ACCT 6380 or HMGT 6380 or ACCT 4334. (3-0) R
HMGT 6401 Negotiation and Conflict Management in Healthcare (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops critical negotiating and conflict management skills to significantly improve the quality of life within a medical organization. Topics include recognizing the difference between constructive and disruptive conflict, developing systems that handle conflict at the least disruptive level, mediating disagreements among colleagues, negotiating against a stronger opponent and dealing with disruptive or impaired colleagues. (4-0) T
HMGT 6402 Financial Management of Healthcare Organizations (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops the critical skills needed to make financial decisions that reduce risk and increase the economic value of a healthcare organization. Topics include how to read and interpret healthcare financial statements, how to manage financial risk, determining an medical organization's cost of capital, using net present value to make value creating investment decisions; and evaluating the ability to attract and retain capital. (4-0) T
HMGT 6403 Medical Cost and Performance Management (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops powerful tools to measure and control healthcare costs and improve operating performance. Topics include identifying and controlling important medical cost drivers, using flexible budgeting to improve operating performance, measuring the profitability of individual medical services and developing both financial and non-financial measures of organizational performance. (4-0) T
HMGT 6404 Quality and Performance Improvement in Healthcare (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Provides the tools physicians need to grow their practices by improving the quality of their patient service processes. Topics include how to identify and improve key service processes, redesigning critical service processes to improve operating efficiency, and developing products and services that add patient value. (4-0) T
HMGT 6405 Healthcare Information Management and Technology (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Examines the critical success factors for the specification, selection and implementation of a healthcare IT system. Topics include analyzing healthcare IT architectures, developing an IT implementation plan and budget, and developing the governance and oversight requirements of a major IT project. (4-0) T
HMGT 6406 Strategic Management of Healthcare Organizations (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops the strategic thinking skills required to create sustainable competitive advantage in a healthcare organization. Topics include critically assessing a medical organization's competitive strengths and weaknesses, analyzing competitive threats to long-term survival, strategy formulation and the identification of potential strategic partners. (4-0) T
HMGT 6407 Healthcare Policy and Regulation (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Examines the social, political and economic forces that are shaping US healthcare policy. Analyzes the federal government's role in the financing and regulation of healthcare, discusses the government's enforcement role with Center for Medicare (CMS) and the Office of Inspector General (OIG) and analyzes the prospects for healthcare reform. This class is held in Washington, DC. (4-0) T
HMGT 6408 Motivational Leadership in Healthcare Organizations (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Analyzes the types of behaviors which lead to high performance within healthcare organizations. Topics include individual behavior and motivation, behavioral job requirements and job/person matching, the differences between leadership and managerial behavior; and how to establish and maintain a high performance work climate. (4-0) T
HMGT 6410 Coaching as a Leadership Style (4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. Develops highly effective coaching skills for fostering positive change in both individuals and teams. Topics include developing an effective coaching relationship through intelligent listening and authentic feedback, assessing an individual's readiness for change and helping to increase colleagues' personal and professional effectiveness. (4-0) T
HMGT 6V10 Special Topics in Healthcare Management (1-3 semester credit hours) Issues in current Healthcare Management. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) Y
HMGT 6V15 Self-Directed Field Study (1-4 semester credit hours) Executive Education Course. A self-directed, faculty supervised field study of the participant's practice or medical organization using the knowledge and skills acquired in the residential program. This course is non-residential. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Department consent required. ([1-4]-0) S
HMGT 6V98 Healthcare Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). JSOM Internship Coordinator consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
HMGT 6V99 Special Topics in Healthcare Management (1-4 semester credit hours) May be lecture, readings or individualized study. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Instructor consent is required. ([1-4]-0) S