MKT 6301 (SYSM 6318) Marketing Management (3 semester credit hours) Overview of marketing management methods, principles and concepts including product, pricing, promotion and distribution decisions as well as segmentation, targeting and positioning. (3-0) S
MKT 6309 Marketing Research (3 semester credit hours) Methods employed in market research to understand consumer behavior to enable better marketing decision-making. Topics include focus groups, understanding different sources of secondary data, questionnaire design, design of experiments, sampling plans, and data analysis using statistical techniques. In addition, the course will cover attitude measurement, and market research on the Internet. Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6310 Consumer Behavior (3 semester credit hours) An exposition of the theoretical perspectives of consumer behavior along with practical marketing implication. Study of psychological, sociological and behavioral findings and frameworks with reference to consumer decision-making. Topics will include the consumer decision-making model, individual determinants of consumer behavior and environmental influences on consumer behavior and their impact on marketing. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6321 Interactive and Digital Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the theory and practice of interactive and digital marketing. Topics covered include: online-market research, consumer behavior and segmentation considerations; websites, search advertising, search engine marketing, email, mobile, video and social networks. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6322 Internet Business Models (3 semester credit hours) Topics to be covered are: consumer behavior on the Internet, advertising on the Internet, competitive strategies, market research using the Internet, brand management, managing distribution and supply chains, pricing strategies, electronic payment systems, and developing virtual organizations. Further, students learn auction theory, web content design, and clickstream analysis. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6323 Database Marketing (3 semester credit hours) Techniques to analyze, interpret, and utilize marketing databases of customers to identify a firm's best customers, understanding their needs, and targeting communications and promotions to retain such customers. Topics include: handling, creating and reading datasets, LifeTime Value, RFM and response analysis. In addition, students will learn to use SAS software. Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6328 Product Management (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the theory and practice of product management. The course covers the management and marketing of new or existing products. Topics include: considerations and managing of the product, pricing, promotions and placement throughout a products lifecycle; competitive analysis and strategies; budgeting and forecasting; product line extensions and portfolio management. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6329 New Product Development (3 semester credit hours) Development and introduction of new products. Topics include product positioning, screening, concept development, test marketing, and branding strategies. Further students will learn to use conjoint analysis for new product development, measurement of brand equity, product line extensions, and management of services. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6330 Brand Management (3 semester credit hours) To study the role and philosophy of brand management in the strategic marketing process and the resulting effects on strategic and marketing decisions. Topics will include the strategic brand building process, segmentation and positioning for building brands, consumer behavior, brand information systems, building brand equity and the application of brand management using marketing principles. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6331 Building and Managing Professional Sales Organizations (3 semester credit hours) The focus of this course is on the development and management of a professional sales organization. The course will explore the different strategies needed for different markets (consumer, business, government, and global). While the course will examine the various training programs available, there will be relatively little emphasis on sales techniques (this is not a course to learn basic selling concepts). We examine issues related to building and managing the sales effort at various stages of the company and product lifecycle, hiring and training sales personnel, compensation and incentive plans, sales forecasting, addressing multiple product lines, multiple channels and multiple geographic regions, and developing strategic alliances. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6332 Advertising and Promotional Strategy (3 semester credit hours) The process of formulating promotional strategy with particular emphasis on advertising and sales promotions. Topics include behavioral theories of communication, budgeting, media selection, scheduling of advertisements, measurement of advertising effectiveness, and management different types of sales promotions. Students analyze grocery scanner data to evaluate the effectiveness of promotions. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6333 Channels of Distribution and Retailing (3 semester credit hours) This course will study the design and implementation of channels of distribution, with particular emphasis on retailing, including electronic retailing. Topics covered will include channel coverage strategies, pricing and promotion in channels, retail services, location decisions, franchising and legal issues in channels. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6334 Digital Sales Strategy (3 semester credit hours) The course explores three distinct areas within marketing and sales namely, digital marketing, traditional sales prospecting, and executive sales organization and strategy. The continuing convergence of the digital marketing and sales funnels has created a strategic continuum from digital lead generation to digital sales. The course identifies the current composition of this digital continuum while providing opportunities to evaluate sales and marketing digital strategies. The course will cover concepts including the difference between inbound and outbound digital marketing strategies, tracking CRM inquiries in the funnel, and lead scoring. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MKT 6301 and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6335 Advertising Research (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to advertising research designs and procedures. Topics include the acquisition, evaluation, and analysis of information needed for informed advertising decision making and planning. Also covered are methods used in developmental advertising research, pretesting advertising messages, post campaign (tracking studies) testing, concept testing, surveys, focus groups, attitude change studies and sources of secondary data. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6336 Pricing (3 semester credit hours) Techniques to price durable goods, packaged goods and services. Topics include: perceived value pricing, bundling, price discrimination, product-line pricing, dynamic pricing over the products' life-cycle, pricing through the marketing channel, and competitive pricing. In addition to microeconomic approaches to pricing, behavioral approaches to pricing will also be covered. Pricing decisions will be analyzed using spreadsheet analysis. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6337 Marketing Analytics Using SAS (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed for a career in marketing analytics in which students analyze data from large databases to make important marketing decisions. These methods are commonly employed in online marketing, in grocery stores, and in financial markets. Students will acquire knowledge about the tools and software that are used to understand issues such as who the profitable customers are, how to acquire them, and how to retain them. The tools can also be used to manage brand prices and promotions using scanner data as is done in supermarkets. Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6338 (MIS 6378) Enterprise Systems and CRM (3 semester credit hours) The objective of the course is to increase practical skills and conceptual knowledge related to Customer Relationship Management (CRM) utilizing the mySAP.com CRM application and the data mining workbench. Students will garner knowledge of operational, analytical, and collaborative CRM. (3-0) R
MKT 6339 Capstone Marketing Decision Making (3 semester credit hours) This is a simulation based course where students form groups and compete for market share, profits, and stock price in a competitive fictional market. Teams make tactical decisions about production quantity, price, advertising, sales force allocation and develop new product specifications to compete with other teams for different segments in the market place. The course provides a hands-on experience in marketing decision-making and allows students to integrate the knowledge they learned to make more effective decisions. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and MKT 6309 and MKT 6310. (3-0) Y
MKT 6340 Marketing Projects (3 semester credit hours) Sponsored by local industries, these projects provide the students an opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge gained to solve real world challenging problems in the area of marketing. Students work in a team environment, interact with industry leaders and gain some industry specific knowledge. Prerequisites: MKT 6301 and (MKT 6309 or MKT 6310) or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6350 Competitive Marketing Strategy (3 semester credit hours) Students learn how firms develop their marketing strategy to compete effectively in different situations. Using game theory principles, they will be exposed to competitive strategies in new emerging markets, mature markets, and on the Internet. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6360 Services Marketing (3 semester credit hours) To study the growing field of services marketing as a separate and distinct area of marketing thought and practice and its influence in competitive markets. The focus will be on three main services marketing areas, the service customer, the service company and the integration of marketing, human resources and operations within the service system. The course is intended to help analyze and judge the merits of services marketing strategies and assist in making strategic decisions in both business and consumer services industries. Topics will include: relationship marketing and the customer mix, understanding the service customer, external service quality: service design and delivery, the service brand, service strategy; technology and innovation, international services marketing, pricing and promotion of services. Prerequisite: MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6362 Marketing Models (3 semester credit hours) This course teaches quantitative models that are necessary when implementing marketing strategy such as segmentation, positioning, product portfolios and marketing mix variables. Companies are increasingly using and applying the modeling approach to marketing decision making. Topics and tools covered include: forecasting, product diffusion and advertising, sales force allocation and sizing models, analysis of scanner data in brand choice models, promotional profitability and more. Students will be given a rudimentary knowledge of SAS and other commercially-used software. Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 and OPRE 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6363 Advanced Marketing Research with SAS (3 semester credit hours) An overview of marketing research with an emphasis on statistical analysis of marketing data sets using the SAS statistical package. This course will provide fundamental grounding in the interface between the SAS data step, which is the environment for accessing, structuring, formatting and manipulating data, and SAS procedures, including: summarize, analyze, and display. Special attention will be given to marketing data collection and analysis with an emphasis on demand forecasting and customer segmentation. (3-0) Y
MKT 6365 Marketing Digital Applications (3 semester credit hours) This course provides hands on training with different applications frequently used by marketing/advertising companies and agencies. The course covers social media listening platforms, conducting user experience (UX) web and mobile testing, data visualization, website creation, video editing, mobile QR codes, web based apps, search engine optimization and paid search campaigns (i.e. Google AdWords). Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 and MKT 6321) or instructor consent required. (3-0) T
MKT 6380 (ENTP 6380) Market Entry Strategies (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses the marketing challenges facing the entrepreneurial firm, with specific emphasis on the choice and implementation of an initial market entry strategy. This choice typically involves multiple decisions, each based on critical assumptions about customers, markets and competitors. Early validation of these key assumptions is an essential element of the strategic decision process. Topics include understanding the context and the customer, developing and validating the business concept, defining the product/service offering and customer value proposition, positioning, creating awareness, and developing and implementing the market entry strategy. Credit cannot be received for both courses, ENTP 6380 and MKT 6380. Prerequisite: ENTP 6370 or MKT 6301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 6382 (ENTP 6382) Professional Selling (3 semester credit hours) Examines the theory and practical application of the principles and art of professional selling. The course places special emphasis on mapping the sales process for new companies and new products. The method of instruction will include case studies as well as learning by doing live case instruction. This course will include the following advanced concepts in sales: Major account acquisition, government markets, global markets, request for information, request for proposal, product line sales, adaptive product and service solutions, team selling, long sales cycles, prospecting and networking strategies, implementation and analysis of prospecting strategies, and sales management strategies for the early stage of the product lifecycle. (3-0) Y
MKT 6383 Professional Selling II (3 semester credit hours) This course uses a case based experiential approach to learning the sales process. Advanced approaches used in business mid-market to enterprise and government sales will be introduced. Students will explore inside sales, outside sales, request for information and request for proposal methods of account acquisition and management. This course will focus on both products and services in the later stage of the product lifecycle. Students will practice multi-visit role-plays in a team sales setting with existing partners of the JSOM Center for Professional Selling. (3-0) Y
MKT 6V98 Marketing Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) Student gains experience and improves skills through appropriate developmental work assignments in a real business environment. Student must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. The student must demonstrate exposure to the managerial perspective via involvement or observation. At semester end, student prepares an oral or poster presentation, or a written paper reflecting on the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (3 semester credit hours maximum). JSOM Internship Coordinator consent required. ([1-3]-0) S
MKT 6V99 Special Topics in Marketing (1-4 semester credit hours) Study of rapidly emerging or changing areas within marketing. The specific topic will fall under one of the following categories: advertising, branding, digital marketing, product management, sales, marketing management or marketing analytics and market research. The course may consist of participation in one or more major marketing competitions. May be lecture, readings, individualized study or team based competitions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: (MKT 6301 or MKT 6309) and MKT 6310 or instructor consent required. ([1-4]-0) Y
MKT 7314 Marketing Models I (3 semester credit hours) Study of mathematical models used in solving marketing problems including brand switching, new product adoption, and competitive strategy models. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6302 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 7315 Marketing Models II (3 semester credit hours) Advanced study of mathematical models used in solving marketing problems including brand switching, new product adoption, and competitive strategy models. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6302 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
MKT 7V12 Research Applications in Marketing (3-4 semester credit hours) Application of multivariate methods in statistics to marketing problems including discriminant analysis, logit/probit analysis, and other multivariate applications. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: (OPRE 6301 and MKT 6301) or instructor consent required. ([3-4]-0) T