PA 6300 Quality and Productivity Improvement in Government (3 semester credit hours) Examines the implications and challenges of improving public sector quality and productivity. Provides practical methods for improving government productivity and quality efforts. Provides tools for measuring performance and for managing performance. (3-0) R
PA 6311 Public Management (3 semester credit hours) The application of ideas and techniques of public management and decision-making to examine the various roles of the general manager in public organizations. Utilizes the case method. (3-0) S
PA 6313 Public Policymaking and Institutions (3 semester credit hours) Surveys the major institutions associated with policymaking, including Congress, the Presidency, the bureaucracy, and interest groups. These institutions are studied by linking them to the decision-making theories of organizations, social choice and incrementalism. (3-0) S
PA 6314 (SOC 6316) Policy Analysis (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to policy analysis, exploring approaches and providing tools to analyze contemporary policy questions at various levels of governance. (3-0) R
PA 6315 (SOC 6315) Program Evaluation (3 semester credit hours) Techniques and analytical methods of assessing governmental and nonprofit program and policy success. Emphasis is placed on strategies for impact assessment, measuring efficiency, examining short-term and long-term consequences, identifying both intended and unintended impacts, and the social, political and ethical context of evaluation. (3-0) T
PA 6316 Leadership in Public and Nonprofit Management (3 semester credit hours) This course will examine the major theories and practices of leadership in public and nonprofit organizations. Effective leaders from public and nonprofit organizations will speak to the class about the challenges of leading in complex environments. (3-0) R
PA 6317 (PSCI 6317) Intergovernmental/Intersectoral Relations and Management (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the conceptual foundations of federalism that prescribe the relationships among federal and state governments in the U.S. It considers the practice of intergovernmental administration (federal, state, local) and intersectoral management (public, private, nonprofit) including devolution, fiscal federalism, and through a review of current issues in the field. (3-0) Y
PA 6318 Information Systems in Policy Environments (3 semester credit hours) Overview of the technology, role and management of computer-based information systems in policy environments. Provides the managerial foundation for effective decision-making with respect to information technology implementation in public organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 6319 Topics in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) Topics may include areas related to environmental policy, health policy, and immigration policy and reform. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) S
PA 6320 Organizational Theory (3 semester credit hours) Focuses on bureaucracy and rationality, formal and informal structures, and the role of the environment. Organizational factors such as technology, power, information, and culture, as well as the implications of organizational theory for public policy are examined. (3-0) T
PA 6321 Government Financial Management and Budgeting (3 semester credit hours) Management of government finances, including revenue collection and enforcement, cash and debt management, investments, general and special funds, controllership, financial and program audits, purchasing, financial reporting, managerial use of governmental accounting systems, GAO and professional accounting standards. (3-0) S
PA 6322 Negotiations for Effective Management (3 semester credit hours) Students in this courses will learn about negotiations, principally in the public sector, and will develop and practice skills to become more proficient negotiators and more effective managers. The course will be a combination of learning about negotiations and participating in exercises and simulated negotiations. The exercises and simulations reinforce theories about the role of negotiations in effective management and enable students to develop their own negotiation skills. (3-0) T
PA 6324 Urban Planning (3 semester credit hours) This course examines local issues involving growth and development on the local level of government. Specifically, it examines land use planning, zoning, subdivision regulations, and the processes that are involved with these issues. (3-0) R
PA 6326 Decision Tools for Managers (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to the variety of analytical and mathematical tools intended to improve management decision-making. Cognitive failures in decision-making and remedies are also explored. Tools range from systems analysis to techniques of management science. Uses available software for management science studies. (3-0) Y
PA 6328 Management Process and Analysis (3 semester credit hours) This course examines rigorous methods for analyzing management processes and decision-making. Focuses on the examination, critique and design of management systems. (3-0) T
PA 6330 Basics of Land Development (3 semester credit hours) Land development is the conversion of land from one use to another. This course emphasizes key concepts of land use practices utilized by local governments in the Dallas metroplex. Land use planning includes use for residential, commercial, industrial, as well as recreational, educational, social, and cultural activities. (3-0) Y
PA 6334 Ethics, Culture and Public Responsibility (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a general consideration of traditions of ethical thought, the interactions between personal behavior and cultural groups/norms and the implementation of public responsibility. Topics to be considered will include tensions between personal and collective goals, the nature and limits of tolerance, and the role of institutions such as the family, government, business, churches and interest groups. (3-0) T
PA 6335 (SOC 6335) Resource Development for Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course examines sources of revenue for nonprofit organizations. Specific topics include fundraising, grant writing, and donor dynamics. The course is designed to prepare the student to work effectively as a member of a fundraising team - either as staff or volunteer board member. (3-0) R
PA 6336 Bureaucracy and Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines federal agencies, which fall under the executive branch of government. The course reviews the roles of federal agencies in the policy-making process; the recruitment and retention of public managers and political appointees; the external and internal forces that shape the missions and operations of bureaucracies and their stakeholders; the creation and development of federal agencies; the sources and myths regarding red-tape; and the efficacy of various bureaucratic reform efforts in the U.S. This course is historical and theoretical, as well as a practical guide for those interested in public management or public service. (3-0) R
PA 6342 (ECON 6372) Local Economic Development (3 semester credit hours) This class will examine the role of local governments in promoting economic development in the United States, and will analyze the economic development process. Attention will be given to economic theories of local development and practical implications of those theories. Topics include local economic development and poverty, tax incentives, infrastructure credits, firm location decisions and effects of government competition for economic activity. (3-0) T
PA 6344 Local Government Management (3 semester credit hours) This course examines structure of local governments, the roles of key elected and appointed officials, and numerous issues and problems that local government managers and policymakers face. It also presents for discussion and study some of the best management practices that local government managers use in achieving effective and efficient delivery of services. There is a focus on local government management in the Dallas metro area through interaction with elected and appointed officials. (3-0) T
PA 6345 Human Resources Management (3 semester credit hours) Examines theories, principles, and practices of human resources management in public organizations. Explores implications of social and administrative values as expressed in current human resource policies. (3-0) S
PA 6348 Navigating the Government Workplace (3 semester credit hours) The governmental workplace is often a complicated work environment with numerous stakeholders. This practical course explores the challenges that public managers face at all levels of government in having successful careers. (3-0) Y
PA 6349 Municipal Governance in Seoul, Korea (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a unique opportunity to develop an understanding and appreciation for public policy implementation and management in an international context, Students will engage the policy formulation and change literatures to evaluate Seoul, Korea's municipal government process, procedures, and policy decisions as they pertain to a series of functional policy problems. A field trip to Seoul, Korea is required. Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
PA 6351 (CRIM 6351) Introduction to Homeland Security (3 semester credit hours) This course provides a comprehensive overview of the structure of Homeland Security, its origins and developing trends and challenges. Selected material from Congress, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Justice, local, state, and other government and non-government agencies will be studied. Examines both historical and contemporary Homeland Defense and Security issues. (3-0) Y
PA 6353 Emergency Management (3 semester credit hours) This course examines issues related to the management of emergencies including discussion of emergency preparedness, emergency mitigation, and emergency response. The course will also discuss the interplay of local, state, and federal actors in emergency response as well as the role of government, private, and nonprofit organizations in emergency response. (3-0) T
PA 6369 Grant Writing and Management (3 semester credit hours) This course provides the skills and knowledge to seek, solicit, and receive grant awards from foundation and government sources to support public and nonprofit programs and projects. Also covered are the skill sets necessary to manage grants effectively to provide the greatest value to your organization and to the granting agency. (3-0) Y
PA 6370 Project and Contract Management (3 semester credit hours) This course examines issues related to the management of large projects with particular attention to the management of contracts and grants to third parties. This course will discuss the justifications for contracting out public work, methods of oversight of contracts, and the steps in planning these large projects. The course will also discuss the implications of project planning for grant writing. (3-0) T
PA 6374 Financial Management for Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces the basic concepts of third sector financial literacy. Curriculum includes financial planning and budgeting, monitoring of contracts and grants and reporting mechanisms. (3-0) R
PA 6380 (SOC 6380) Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) This course examines issues related to the rise, scope, development and impact of nonprofit organizations. The course explores both the unique missions of nonprofit organizations and the management challenges posed by this expanding sector of the organizational environment. (3-0) T
PA 6382 (SOC 6381) Nonprofit Management (3 semester credit hours) This course examines issues, strategies, and techniques related to executive leadership and management in nonprofit organizations. (3-0) R
PA 6384 (SOC 6384) Seminar in Urban Policy (3 semester credit hours) This seminar surveys key urban policy challenges and opportunities faced by U.S. cities. The course will focus on critical analysis of a range of topics including the continuing viability of cities in the context of current economic and demographic dynamics, fiscal stress, governance, economic development, transportation, poverty and race/ethnicity, drugs, homelessness, federal urban policy, and survival strategies for declining cities. (3-0) R
PA 6386 (SOC 6386) Diversity in the Public and Nonprofit Sectors (3 semester credit hours) This course provides the skills and knowledge necessary to manage increasingly diverse workforces in the public and nonprofit sectors. A significant portion of the course will focus on diversity in the workplace, with particular attention given to discrimination, strategies for developing equitable public sector organizations, and the need for cultural competency among public administrators. (3-0) T
PA 6387 Strategic Planning for Nonprofit (3 semester credit hours) This course provides an introduction to the strategic planning process for nonprofit managers or those interested in the practical aspects of nonprofit management. (3-0) T
PA 6388 Readings in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) Individual directed reading and writing course in selected topics in public administration and public policy. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) R
PA 6399 Capstone in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) The capstone in public affairs is the culminating experience for graduating MPA students. Students integrate knowledge from across the MPA curriculum in a faculty-directed semester-long applied research project. (3-0) Y
PA 6V01 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Students will work with a faculty member to develop an individualized course of study relevant to public affairs. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PA 6V97 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Provides faculty supervision for a student's internship. Internships must be related to the student's coursework. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PA 7305 Leadership and Change in Public and Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Examines the range of contemporary theories of leadership and change in public/nonprofit settings. Examines the set of actions and behaviors requisite for leading contemporary organizations and provides applied tools for enacting change and adapting models of change to varied organizational settings. (3-0) Y
PA 7314 Advanced Policy Process, Implementation and Evaluation (3 semester credit hours) This advanced seminar provides in-depth introduction to central theories of the policy process, implementation and evaluation, reviews classic and contemporary literature in the field, and introduces students to key approaches to public policy research. (3-0) Y
PA 7317 Microeconomics and Policy Analysis (3 semester credit hours) This course draws on microeconomic theories to understand public policy analysis. Major topics include but are not limited to operation of market systems, market failure, welfare economics, public goods and cost-benefit analysis. (3-0) S
PA 7320 Advanced Human Capital Research and Theory (3 semester credit hours) This advanced seminar reviews the classic and contemporary literature on human resources management and related issues, presents key theories and explores key approaches to human capital research and analysis, and explores contemporary issues of human capital development in the public/nonprofit sectors. (3-0) Y
PA 7330 Research Design in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) Includes a variety of applied research techniques aimed at enhancing analysis of intra-organizational and extra-organizational settings. Both qualitative and quantitative techniques will be explored and applied. Techniques range from ethnographic analysis of organizational and social cultures to development of survey research methods for needs assessment, environmental sensing and marketing. Prerequisite: EPPS 6313 or equivalent. (3-0) Y
PA 7350 Advanced Organizational Theory and Behavior (3 semester credit hours) This advanced seminar provides in-depth examination of key theories of organizational behavior and change, reviews classic and contemporary literature in the field, and introduces students to common approaches to organizational research. (3-0) Y
PA 7360 Advanced Fiscal and Budgetary Policy (3 semester credit hours) This advanced seminar reviews central theories of public budgeting and finance, discusses roles of fiscal and political institutions in financial management, and provides a foundation for analyzing government budgets. The course helps students develop skills in reading and critically evaluating published and working papers in public affairs. (3-0) Y
PA 7375 Nonprofit Organizations: Theory and Practice (3 semester credit hours) This class explores the leading theories of nonprofit organizations. Examines the unique elements of nonprofit organizations and the academic and practical challenges produced by these distinctive elements. Examines how theory is applied to the practice of management in nonprofit organizations. (3-0) Y
PA 7376 Presidential Decision Making (3 semester credit hours) This course examines how the presidency of the United States works. It investigates how a president uses his office and the executive branch that he oversees to meet what he believes are the expectations of the nation. Its readings and lectures include examination of the primary historical writing concerning the power of the president; analysis of the limits on this authority and discussion of the Supreme Court cases that have decided in specific cases what those limits are; and exploration of the structural and institutional tools the president has at his disposal to establish and implement national policy. (3-0) R
PA 7381 Special Topics in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) Topics are rotated typically among the major fields within the program including but not limited to environmental policy, health policy, and immigration policy and reform. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
PA 7384 Readings in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) Individual directed reading and writing course in selected topics of public administration and public policy. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Department consent required. (3-0) R
PA 7V62 Policy Research Workshop in Public Affairs (3-6 semester credit hours) Students join a faculty member in a group research project. MPA or doctoral students may not take more than 3 semester credit hours of their concentration requirement from policy research workshops and PPPE 7V76. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([3-6]-0) R
PA 8302 Proseminar in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) All first year doctoral students are required to take this workshop in their first year in the program. The course introduces students to a range of skills needed for graduate school and features research presentations by faculty, visiting scholars, and advanced students. Pass/Fail only. Graduate Program Director consent required. (3-0) Y
PA 8330 Archer Center Summer Graduate Seminar (3 semester credit hours) This course competitively selects a group of UT System graduate students to spend an 11-week summer program in Washington, D.C. The course is designed to complement students' experiences at their accompanying six semester credit hour internship placement. The course provides a context for and a familiarity with the dynamics that influence all activity in the government, including meeting officials from the White House, House and Senate, nonprofits, lobbying firms, think tanks, the media, and others. Students return with a participant's understanding of the workings of the remarkable machinery of the federal government. Corequisite: PA 8630 and instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
PA 8340 Dissertation Seminar in Public Affairs (3 semester credit hours) Students will explore current issues in public affairs of relevance to their area of concentration. The course will focus on the identification of a specific dissertation research topic and students are expected to develop a formal research proposal. Enrollment is only permitted for students either in their final semester of coursework or who have completed all coursework requirements. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Graduate Program Director consent required. (3-0) S
PA 8630 Archer Center Summer Graduate Internship (6 semester credit hours) Students are competitively selected to participate in an 11-week summer program in Washington, D.C. The internship experience provides students with the opportunity not only to view the activity of the government, but to participate in it as well. The internships, which are monitored by the Archer Center, integrate the student into the work of the office or agency, treating the intern like a junior staff member. Students thus participate in and come to understand the nature, the pace, the context, and the intensity of federal government policy making. The internship is complemented by a required 3-semester credit hour, academic course. Corequisites: PA 8330 and instructor consent required. (6-0) Y
PA 8V01 Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Students will work with a faculty member to develop an individualized course of study relevant to public affairs. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PA 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Students will conduct original research and write a dissertation on a public affairs topic, under the direction of his or her committee. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: EPPS doctoral students only and PA 8340 and supervising professor consent required. ([1-9]-0) Y