BCOM 1300 Introduction to Professionalism and Communication in Business (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to business communication and professionalism with a focus on developing the skills necessary to communicate professionally and effectively. Particular communication skills include understanding audience and context; writing and evaluating internal and external communications; using appropriate communication tools and channels; effectively integrating research and data into presentations and reports; and networking and professional presence. Required and open only to all first time in college freshman Naveen Jindal School of Management majors. Credit cannot be received for both courses, BCOM 1300 and (BCOM 3300 or BCOM 3310). Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (3-1) Y
BCOM 3300 Professionalism and Communication in Business (3 semester credit hours) This course introduces students to business communication and professionalism with a focus on developing the skills necessary to communicate professionally and effectively. Particular communication skills include understanding audience and context; writing and evaluating internal and external communications; using appropriate communication tools and channels; effectively integrating research and data into presentations; and networking and professional presence. This course is required for all students in their first semester majoring in the Naveen Jindal School of Management who were not required to take BCOM 1300. Credit cannot be received for both courses, BCOM 3300 and (BCOM 1300 or BCOM 3310). (3-1) S
BCOM 3310 Business Communication (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to various types of professional communication, with an emphasis on business writing. Students will gain experience writing and revising business email, letters, proposals, and job search documents. Students will work both individually and in teams and will exit the course with a clear understanding of the centrality of communication in business. Not eligible for audit. This course does not fulfill the university communications core requirement. (3-0) S
BCOM 4300 Managing Communications in Business (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on communication as a management and leadership tool, and emphasizes communications with a variety of stakeholders within an organization: team members, superiors, direct reports, as well as management of external stakeholders such as clients. Topics include communication theories and communication strategies for leading based on communication skills and strengths, managing conflict, and addressing ethics and destructive leadership communication practices. Prerequisite: BCOM 1300 or BCOM 3300 or BCOM 3310. (3-0) S