COMM 1311 (SPCH 1311) Survey of Oral and Technology-based Communication (3 semester credit hours) Survey of theories, concepts, and skills as they relate to human interaction. Study of intrapersonal, interpersonal, small group, public, and mediated and technology-based communication. Practice in the preparation and delivery of oral presentations. (3-0) S
COMM 1315 (SPCH 1315) Public Speaking (3 semester credit hours) Designed to introduce students to the principles of public speaking. Emphasizes preparation (including audience analysis, research, outlining, and practice) and performance. Students will prepare and present various types of speeches, including those that relate to informative, persuasive,and special occasion speaking. (3-0) R
COMM 1320 (SPCH 1318) Interpersonal Communication (3 semester credit hours) Surveys theories, concepts, and skills related to communication in personal and professional relationships and introduces students to research about interpersonal communication and relationships. (3-0) R
COMM 2314 Oral Interpretation (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on the analyses of texts and subtexts and the oral interpretation of literature. Students will learn and practice delivery techniques as they relate to dramatic interpretation, duo interpretation, prose interpretation, poetry interpretation and programmed oral interpretation. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
COMM 2317 Topics in Communication (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to specialized topics in communication. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
COMM 2V71 Independent Study in Communications (1-3 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
COMM 3320 Readers' Theater (3 semester credit hours) Students will read from a script or adaptation to create characters through vocal expression and articulation. Performances are live with minimal props and costuming. Students will improve performance and vocal skills, and will become fluent while reading from scripts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: COMM 2314 or THEA 1352 or THEA 2372 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 3321 Advanced Public Speaking (3 semester credit hours) This course is for students who have mastered basic public speaking skills. It will explore and fine-tune a wider range of styles and skills. The course will be performance-centered and will include presentations, selected readings, examinations, and classroom exercises on a more advanced level. Prerequisite: (COMM 1311 or COMM 1315 or COMM 2314) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
COMM 3330 Public Address and the American Presidency (3 semester credit hours) Study of public address associated with the American presidency. Students analyze the delivery, style, and content of messages in various forms of public address (e.g., speeches, social media). Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
COMM 3340 Small Group Communication (3 semester credit hours) Group processes and dynamics applied to public discussion and small group communication. Study of the development of group leadership abilities, problem-solving techniques and conflict management, discussion methods, and the importance of small groups in the modern professional environment. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
COMM 3342 Advanced Topics in Communication (3 semester credit hours) Focuses on advanced topics in communication, such as political communication, sports communication, public relations, and digital journalism. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) R
COMM 3350 Intercultural Communication (3 semester credit hours) Examines how culture is studied and how culture affects self-concept, reasoning and patterns of thought, verbal and nonverbal communication, and communication style. Additional topics include intercultural conflict, ethnocentrism and prejudice, intercultural accommodation and adjustment, and intercultural business protocol. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 3351 History and Theory of Communication (3 semester credit hours) This course surveys the history of communication studies. Students will be introduced to major concepts and theories associated with interpersonal, intercultural, group/organizational, rhetorical and mass communication. Students will learn to apply these communication concepts and theories to their everyday lives and future professional pursuits. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) R
COMM 3352 Media and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Media and Culture will examine mass media historically and culturally. The origins and evolution of sounds and images, words and pictures, and the business and democratic expression of mass media will be explored to understand how mass media shapes our culture. Prerequisite: RHET 1302 (3-0) R
COMM 3353 Nonverbal Communication (3 semester credit hours) This course reviews scientific research on nonverbal variables such as facial expressions, vocal characteristics, body positions, gestures, the environment, intercultural influences, and deception. Complementing this review is an examination of the use of nonverbal communication by practitioners in education, business, health care, and law enforcement. You will investigate nonverbal variables in real-life settings and assess the effect of your own nonverbal behavior upon others. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 4305 Communications Law (3 semester credit hours) Communications Law explores the First Amendment principle of free expression and the impacts on communication, digital media, privacy, and intellectual property. This course looks at the current state of the law so that communication professionals will have an awareness of potential legal issues they will face while working in a cut, paste, and post digital media communication world. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311 and upper-level standing) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 4314 Persuasion and Interpersonal Influence (3 semester credit hours) This course will emphasize the critical evaluation of persuasive messages and the design of persuasive appeals. By merging rhetorical theory and application, students will focus on persuasive strategies as a means for influencing attitudes, beliefs, and actions in a variety of contexts, including business, politics, and interpersonal interactions. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) S
COMM 4360 Communication Ethics (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the conceptual perspectives and approaches for understanding and evaluating communication ethics in a variety of contexts. Contexts may include interpersonal relationships, small groups, organizations, intercultural encounters, public communication and technology-based communication. The course is designed to reveal values and ethical issues inherent in communication and provide resources for making and defending choices on ethical grounds. Prerequisites: RHET 1302 and upper-division standing. (3-0) R
COMM 4370 Communication and Leadership (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the relationship between communication and leadership. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, historical perspectives on leadership, case studies of communication and leadership, the relationship between leadership communication and organizational dynamics, and presidential rhetoric. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 4371 Communication and Professionalism (3 semester credit hours) This course will improve students' professional persona in terms of oral, nonverbal, written, and mediated communication. Individually and in teams, students will practice advanced communication skills in various contexts and for a variety of purposes, such as Skype interviewing, online team presentations, and written performance plans and evaluations. Additional topics may include business etiquette (both oral and written), online presence, stress interviews, negotiating contracts and salaries, and professional networking. Prerequisite: COMM 1311 or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 4375 Professional Communication in Medicine (3 semester credit hours) Explores different modes of communication in the health professions including interpersonal communication, poster presentations, research proposals and publications, and crisis communication. Students will work to build collaboration, writing, speaking, and communication skills as required in the medical field. Prerequisites: (RHET 1302 and COMM 1311) or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
COMM 4V71 Advanced Independent Study in Communication (1-3 semester credit hours) Advanced independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and Associate Dean on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R