HLTH 1100 Career Explorations for the Health Professions (1 semester credit hour) Centered on guest speakers, this one hour course aims to develop a holistic approach for healthcare and to explore the realities of various health professions. Students will investigate many options for present and next-generation health careers, and learn what courses and activities will open doors to their areas of interest. Appropriate for any level student. Instructor consent required. (1-0) Y
HLTH 1301 Introduction to Kinesiology (3 semester credit hours) The history, principles, objectives and current concepts of kinesiology. (3-0) R
HLTH 1322 Human Nutrition (3 semester credit hours) This is an introduction to human nutrition. Topics will include classes, sources, and function of nutrients, digestion and absorption, and metabolism with applications to normal and therapeutic nutritional needs. This course is offered through eLearning at UT Dallas. (3-0) S
HLTH 3101 Medical Terminology (1 semester credit hour) This course is an introduction to the origins and basics of medical terminology. This course examines basic word structure including suffixes and prefixes, the organization of the human body, the definition of useful diagnostic and procedural terminology, and commonly used medical abbreviations, acronyms, and symbols. This course is offered through eLearning at UT Dallas. (1-0) S
HLTH 3300 Pre-Health Professional Development (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the concept of professionalism within a healthcare context including issues of appropriate personal attributes and expectations, ethical decision making, interpersonal communication, and self-appraisal. It will also have an overview of the history of medicine in the U.S., and examination of current issues in healthcare and discussions about personal enrichment through research, clinical activities, and study abroad experiences. Prerequisite: Must be a Junior or Senior Healthcare Studies major. (3-0) Y
HLTH 3301 Issues in Geriatric Healthcare (3 semester credit hours) This course will explore the health, social, psychological, economic and family issues that impact the health status of older adults. An overview of the healthcare system, hospice, home health care professionals, and productive aging will be presented. Students considering careers in the health care field will learn about the multiple factors that must be considered when working with this complex patient population. (3-0) Y
HLTH 3305 The U.S. Healthcare System (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the structure and components of the U.S. healthcare system including hospitals, long-term care, home health and hospice and an analysis of the roles and interconnections among these components. Students will also receive an overview of payment sources and referral systems as well as an exploration of the roles of healthcare professionals in various healthcare settings. (3-0) Y
HLTH 3306 Gender in Healthcare (3 semester credit hours) The course addresses the significance of gender in many aspects of healthcare. Topics may include: gender in research, differential disease presentations, medications, diet, and treatments. Gender demographics and gender identification will be addressed as well as violence in the home and in the hospital setting. The prerequisite for the course is the completion of a core science course. (3-0) R
HLTH 3310 Health Care Issues: Global Perspectives (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the social and political aspects of global healthcare issues. Stressing principles of cultural competence, we will examine varying meanings of "health" as well as the range of factors that encourage the health of some and deny it for others. Through a combination of "macro-level" (national and international) as well as "micro-level" (local) analysis, we will enhance our understanding of the global dimensions of health and disease, various strategies of health initiatives, and the short-and-long-term outcomes of both diseases and correlating health care interventions. Topics may include: maternal mortality, HIV, health and environmental hazards, health systems, health and human rights, grass roots initiatives, the millennium development goals, chronic disease and female genital surgeries. (3-0) R
HLTH 3315 Issues in Patient Education (3 semester credit hours) Overview of methods of delivery of patient education, factors impacting patient education, instructional strategies, health attitudes as they affect patient education and prevention, and the role of patient education within the health care system. (3-0) R
HLTH 4108 Verbal Reasoning and Writing for Pre-Health (1 semester credit hour) This course develops professional level text analysis and composition skills critical to lifelong success in the health professions. Students analyze connotation, content and rhetorical structure, evaluate relationships, and authorial perspective, and craft short compositions. Students will also develop the critical thinking and methodological skills necessary for success on the MCAT and similar exams, success in professional school and success in the health professions. (1-0) S
HLTH 4304 Health Professions Internship (3 semester credit hours) The internship provides students with exposure to a professional healthcare environment, interaction with a variety of disciplines, application of theory to practice and the opportunity to clarify career goals. The learning experience is faculty supervised and requires journal documentation and a research paper. The internship must be approved by the instructor before commencing the internship. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) S
HLTH 4305 Public Health (3 semester credit hours) Using real world examples, this course will provide an overview of the fundamentals of public health, including its history and development. Contemporary public health issues and controversies will be explored in the areas of infectious diseases, chronic diseases, substance abuse, environmental health, occupational diseases, and mental health. This course will describe the major causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States, Texas and globally, and the public health interventions used to address them. The daily monitoring of diseases and the statistical methods used to analyze health data will be discussed. Recent epidemics will be used to highlight these methods. Public health is both a science and an art and there are often no "correct" answers when we look for solutions to public health problems. (3-0) R
HLTH 4306 Health and Sport (3 semester credit hours) An overview of health and sport with emphasis on the exercise sciences, nutrition, exercise technology, and program design. (3-0) S
HLTH 4307 Climate Change in Healthcare (3 semester credit hours) Students will explore the impact of climate change on natural resources and human health using research from scientific and clinical journals. (3-0) S
HLTH 4380 Special Topics in Healthcare (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite: Upper-division standing or instructor or Associate Dean consent required. (3-0) Y
HLTH 4V01 Health Professions Independent Study (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) Y