HMGT 3080 Healthcare Management Honors Program Seminar (0 semester credit hours) This is a mandatory course for each PPH member to take during the Fall of their initiation year. The course will be one hour, once per week and will cover seminar topics that are relevant for transitioning students into working professionals in healthcare. Topics will cover: presentation skills, working with difficult people, working in teams, workplace etiquette, professional appearance & communication, leadership scenarios, personality assessment, negotiation, community involvement, alumni relations, and philanthropy. Weekly seminars will be taught by seasoned professionals from business, government, and academia using primarily case study and lecture formats. Credit/No Credit only. Department consent required. (0-0) Y
HMGT 3301 Introduction to Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) An overview of the U.S. healthcare system - topics include the issues of cost, quality, and access. Financing of the system and healthcare policy will be covered and the role of hospitals, physicians, and managed care organizations will be examined. Prerequisite: MATH 1325 or MATH 2413 or MATH 2417. (3-0) Y
HMGT 3310 Healthcare Regulatory Environment (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the regulatory and compliance environment impacting health care management, including federal, state, and local agencies. Students will explore topics pertinent to the regulatory environment and familiarize themselves with the agencies that monitor, evaluate, assess, and credential health care organizations. Students will explore the extensive oversight and monitoring at all levels in the delivery of health care including: Food and Drug Administration, Center for Disease Control, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Environment Protection Agency, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Office of Inspector General, the Joint Commission, State Health Agencies, and County Public Health Agencies. Prerequisite: HMGT 3301. (3-0) Y
HMGT 3311 Healthcare Financial Analysis (3 semester credit hours) This course will help students develop the critical ability to make financial decisions that reduce risk and create economic value. Using hospital and physician group practice data, participants learn how to: read and interpret healthcare financial statements, using discounted cash flows to make investment decisions that create economic value, financially evaluate a proposed healthcare acquisition, partnership or joint venture, determine how much a medical practice or healthcare organization is really worth, and review internal controls. Prerequisite: ACCT 2301. (3-0) Y
HMGT 3320 Complex and Dynamic Healthcare Environment (3 semester credit hours) An introduction to the business and financial ecosystem that is the healthcare industry. The focus will be on the major actors in the healthcare system - the four Ps - Patient, Provider, Payer, and Policy (government regulations, legislation, etc.) The actors and how they interact with each other to create this system will be explored. Concepts of healthcare analytics and behavioral dynamics will also be explored as they relate to the understanding of the healthcare ecosystem. (3-0) S
HMGT 4090 Healthcare Management Internship (0 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated if internships differ. Department consent required. (0-0) S
HMGT 4321 Introduction to Healthcare Information Systems (3 semester credit hours) Examines key processes in healthcare organizations and how information systems support the delivery of healthcare services. The course also deals with issues surrounding the selection, implementation, and use of electronic medical records (EMR) and provides opportunities to work hands-on with EMR software. Prerequisites: HMGT 3301 and ITSS 3300. (Same as ITSS 4320) (3-0) Y
HMGT 4331 Marketing in Healthcare Organizations (3 semester credit hours) An overview of marketing and business planning principles oriented to settings such as hospitals and outpatient clinics. Traditional marketing models are related to the healthcare industry as students are familiarized with concepts critical to understanding business development for healthcare professionals, including: industry data, market analysis, relevant stakeholders and patient flow through the continuum of care. Prerequisites: HMGT 3301 and MKT 3300. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4351 Management, Design and Optimization of Healthcare Processes (3 semester credit hours) An interactive, experiential course in which students will utilize hands-on, practice-oriented opportunities to learn how to design, manage and optimize healthcare processes. Advanced analytical techniques for healthcare process optimization will also be discussed. (3-0) Y
HMGT 4395 Capstone Senior Project - Healthcare Management (3 semester credit hours) This course is intended to complement theory and to provide an in-depth, hands-on experience in all aspects of a real business project. Students will work in teams as consultants on projects of interest to industry and will be involved in specifying the problem and its solution, designing and analyzing the solution, and developing recommended solutions. The deliverables will include reports that document these steps as well as a final project report, including the challenges faced by the team. Teams will also make presentations. Students (in teams) are expected to develop strategic plans and initiatives related to contemporary issues facing ambulatory care, hospital care, and long term care. The projects will expose the teams to issues related to information technology, financials/accounting, regulatory, strategy, and policy. Teams will assess organizational challenges, determine effective strategies/responses, propose solutions, and identify potential impacts/results. Prerequisites: BCOM 4300 and HMGT 3301 and HMGT 3310 and HMGT 3311 and HMGT 4321. (3-0) S
HMGT 4V81 Individual Study in Healthcare Management (1-3 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) R
HMGT 4V90 Healthcare Management Internship (1-3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to further develop a student's business knowledge through appropriate developmental work experiences in a real business environment. Students are required to identify and submit specific business learning objectives (goals) at the beginning of the semester. At the end of the semester students must prepare an oral presentation, reflecting on the knowledge gained in the work experience. Student performance is evaluated by the work supervisor. Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) S