PSCI 3301 Political Theory (3 semester credit hours) An examination of perennial issues in political thought through a study of the work and research methods of selected theorists in the history of political thought. (3-0) Y
PSCI 3303 Civil Liberties (3 semester credit hours) An examination of the development of constitutional law in the area of civil liberties. (3-0) T
PSCI 3306 Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) Investigates various conceptual perspectives for understanding the relationship between economic processes and political institutions. Focuses particular attention on the normative and policy debates separating conservative, liberal, and radical schools of thought. (3-0) R
PSCI 3310 Managing Government Organizations (3 semester credit hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government agencies within the framework of political values and organizational dynamics. (Same as PA 3310) (3-0) S
PSCI 3322 Constitutional Law (3 semester credit hours) Students will examine the methods used in legal research, the evolution of the Constitution of the United States, and the role of the Supreme Court of the United States in the development of the American constitutional system. (3-0) Y
PSCI 3323 American Federalism (3 semester credit hours) An examination of how local, state, and national governments share power in such important areas as education, environmental regulation, public finance, welfare, housing and community development, and criminal justice. There will also be discussions of recent innovations, such as judicial supervision and deregulation. (3-0) R
PSCI 3325 American Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the making of public policy in the U.S. political system. Students will examine the various public policy models and case studies related to specific policy areas. Prerequisites: GOVT 2305 and GOVT 2306 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
PSCI 3326 Politics and Business (3 semester credit hours) An investigation of the role played by business in American politics. Particular attention will be focused on the regulatory process and the changing relationship between business and government in it. (3-0) T
PSCI 3327 American Foreign Policy (3 semester credit hours) Examines the way in which policy-making process structures the premises, concepts, and objectives of U.S. policy and the U.S. role in international politics. (3-0) R
PSCI 3328 International Relations (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the power relationships among national actors and organizations. Topics may include origins of the state system, international security, globalization, north-south relations, ecological security, and the implications of world demographic patterns. (3-0) R
PSCI 3333 Political Behavior (3 semester credit hours) This course addresses the questions of why some people vote but others do not, how individuals make political choices, and how people participate in other ways. It examines the behavioral approach to the study of government and politics, the major theories of political behavior, and the effects of long-term changes, socialization processes, media use and political attitudes and institutions. (3-0) Y
PSCI 3350 Comparative Politics (3 semester credit hours) An analysis of political life in different cultural and national settings. Considers different theoretical approaches to comparative politics, and differences and similarities in types of political culture, political participation, political institutions, and citizen well-being and government effectiveness. (3-0) R
PSCI 3351 Comparative Courts and Law (3 semester credit hours) Examines the roles of constitutions and law across a wide range of countries. Relatedly considers theoretical approaches and research methodologies used to advance understanding of the courts. (3-0) R
PSCI 3353 Law and Gender (3 semester credit hours) This course examines how U.S. laws and legal institutions reflect and reproduce cultural notions of gender and sexuality. Focuses on how legal equality and sex discrimination have been defined and challenged in the United States. Topics include reproductive and sexuality issues, family issues, pornography and sexual speech, workplace regulations, and, generally, how gender and sexuality interact in legal decision making. We will also examine several of these issues from an international human rights or comparative perspective. (3-0) R
PSCI 3362 The American Political Institutions (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the constitutional foundations and historical development of the Congress, the presidency, the executive, and the courts. Attention will be paid to both the interactions of these institutions, research methodologies employed in examining these institutions, and the internal workings of each. Prerequisites: GOVT 2305 and GOVT 2306 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
PSCI 3364 Campaigns and Elections (3 semester credit hours) An examination of the electoral process and the changing role that political parties have played in the development of American political institutions and public policy. (3-0) T
PSCI 4301 Law, Science, and Policy (3 semester credit hours) In this course we will investigate how legal structures influence the production of science and the protection of intellectual property. We will also inquire into the manner in which judges and litigants use science in the courtroom. We will cover topics such as the use of DNA in criminal and family law, how judges evaluate scientific evidence (and the value of scientific peer review), government promotion of science using law and other means-among several others. (Same as PPOL 4301) (3-0) T
PSCI 4302 Data and Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the implications of data for policy and policy for data. Policy topics will focus on the relationship between data privacy and security at the national and international level. Students will learn about relevant legislation and its practical and theoretical implications. We will explore contemporary types of data, the ways these data are changing as a result of technological innovations, and the impact of these changes on our privacy and security. (Same as PPOL 4302) (3-0) T
PSCI 4303 Ethnic Politics (3 semester credit hours) This course examines politics in ethnically divided societies through a comparative perspective. Topics include nationalism and state-building, democratic institutions, ethnic conflict, and public policy. Students will learn theories of ethnic politics as well as gain an understanding of several contemporary cases from various world regions. (3-0) R
PSCI 4304 Energy and Environmental Politics and Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the politics of policymaking and substantive policies in the closely related areas of energy, environmental protection, and conservation of natural resources. We will focus primarily on politics and policy at the national and state levels in the United States, with some attention to international issues and other countries as time permits. Our substantive focus will include case studies of contemporary controversies. (3-0) T
PSCI 4305 Political Research (3 semester credit hours) Introduces students to how to develop and answer interesting questions about citizenship, governance, and politics. Covers basic research skills and their application to real world political questions and problems. Course is recommended for students pursuing independent study or theses in the political and social sciences, or those considering law and professional programs. Prerequisites: EPPS 2301 and EPPS 2302. (3-0) Y
PSCI 4306 Protest and Social Movements (3 semester credit hours) This course examines protests and activism to promote social change in a variety of countries around the world. Topics include the U.S. civil rights movement, the campaign to end Apartheid in South Africa, women's suffrage, pro-democracy movements, and right-wing, nationalist movements. Students will gain knowledge about the tools of activism and advocacy as they learn about several empirical cases. (3-0) R
PSCI 4307 Predicting Politics (3 semester credit hours) This course covers how social scientists understand and predict political events. We will examine how to predict and explain events like riots, civil wars, intra- and inter-state conflict, terrorism, and elections. There is a growing need in the policy, human rights, and foreign policy communities for these types of forecasts for early warning systems, humanitarian aid allocation, human rights monitoring, foreign policy decision-making, and conflict mediation. The course focuses on understanding, applying, evaluating, and validating commonly used prediction methods of political events. Prerequisites: EPPS 2301 and EPPS 2302. (3-0) T
PSCI 4308 Writing a Senior Thesis (3 semester credit hours) This course is designed to assist students in the initial stages of writing a senior thesis and conducting original research generally. Too often, even talented students seeking to write a thesis start too late or lack the tools to write an effective thesis. The net effect is that many quit before completing the thesis or turn in a final product that is lower in quality than their capabilities or prior academic record would suggest. This course lays the groundwork for students to develop a proposal (actually about half of the actual thesis) that can then be completed during the spring semester under the direction of a Political Science faculty member. (3-0) R
PSCI 4310 Law and Terrorism (3 semester credit hours) In this course, students confront the complexities of combating terrorism within a system of domestic and international law and rights. The course covers the anti-terrorism policies used by the Bush and Obama Administrations since September 11, 2001. Topics include, but are not limited to, the difficulties of defining boundaries for a War on Terrorism, the treatment of suspected terrorists and their rights under American and international law, the use of physical and psychological interrogation techniques as an information-gathering tool, the mass surveillance of communication, the extrajudicial use of lethal force on suspected terrorists, and the role and legality of whistleblowing and leaking in the publics knowledge of classified policies. In each topic, students learn the details of the governments policy, the competing arguments about its legality made in federal court cases, as well as popular opinion and the leading social science on the policys validity and efficacy. Throughout the course, students also learn about the process of challenging government policy in federal court and the various procedural barriers that insulate executive national-security policy from judicial review. (Same as PPOL 4310) (3-0) R
PSCI 4312 Politics of East Asia (3 semester credit hours) This course examines and compares the politics of East Asian nations in their political institutions, actors and issues. Students will study extensively the history, political geography, political economy, development and democratization of the countries in the region. (3-0) R
PSCI 4313 Politics of China (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on China's political history, the three political systems of modern China and how it is connected with the world, in particular the United States. Students will study China's political and economic development, its role in the global economy and the potential for a new world order. The course addresses special issues, especially the democratization of Greater China including Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macao and China's own democratic experiments in local village elections. (3-0) R
PSCI 4314 Political Economy of East Asia (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the political economy of East Asia with primary focus on China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong. Students will study the region's development models, institutions and international organizations and analyze the rapid growth of its economy and political influence. (3-0) R
PSCI 4316 Civil War and Conflict Resolution (3 semester credit hours) This course examines political violence within states and the conditions under which rebellions and insurgencies emerge. Students will develop a theoretical understanding of why civil wars occur, how they are fought, and how they are ultimately resolved. In addition, students will gain insights into empirical studies of civil war, with an emphasis on contemporary cases. (3-0) R
PSCI 4320 Political Psychology (3 semester credit hours) What is the connection between your personality and your political beliefs? Do your emotions help you make informed political choices or prevent you from considering all the facts? Does racial prejudice affect your attitudes about politics? In this course, we will apply theories from psychology to political phenomena in order to understand how psychological processes influence political thoughts and actions. The goal of the course will be to review, discuss, and evaluate important concepts in political psychology as well as contemporary contributions and controversies covering the impact of everything from the threat of terrorism to the rise of fake news. In exploring these from the framework of political psychology, we can assess the role of the political brain in shaping American democracy. (3-0) R
PSCI 4321 Media and Politics (3 semester credit hours) This course will give students a background in the development of the press as a political institution and the logistics of news-making and coverage. We will examine the theoretical and actual roles played by the press in public affairs to develop understanding of current and persistent problems of press performance, such as bias, independence, manipulation by government and special interests, and the quest for profits at the expense of public service. (3-0) R
PSCI 4322 Social Network Analysis (SNA) : Introduction to the Application and Method in the Social Sciences (3 semester credit hours) Scholars have long been interested in the concept of interdependence - the reality that social entities (individuals, corporations, and foreign actors, etc.) are mutually dependent on one another for the share of information, goods, and cooperation, among other things. Social network analysis (SNA) focuses on understanding the relationships between social actors and incorporates the realities of an interdependent world; adolescents make decisions in relation to their peer group, world leaders consider the actions of others before engaging in conflict, voters utilize information about political candidates shared from their friends and family, and the spread of disease through physical contact. (3-0) Y
PSCI 4326 Political Parties and Interest Groups (3 semester credit hours) Studies the development and organization of political parties and interest groups, and their activities in campaigns and policy making and implementation, in the United States. Political and legal issues in the regulation of nominating processes, campaign finance, lobbying, redistricting, and related areas are addressed. (3-0) R
PSCI 4328 Fake News (3 semester credit hours) Fake news is no doubt a phrase you hear a lot these days, but it's not a phenomenon unique to the information age. The course explores three related questions. What is fake news? How does it spread? And, what (if anything) can (or should) we do about it? As this is a political science course, it will focus primarily on political misinformation though misinformation also applies to consumer, health, and social information, among others. The course will focus on fake news and its application in the United States as well as its global applications. (3-0) R
PSCI 4329 Global Politics (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to the study of global politics. It will explore the teachings from comparative politics and international relations in examining changing global relationships and power structures, and the research methodologies used in this analysis. (3-0) Y
PSCI 4330 The Bible and Politics (3 semester credit hours) An investigation of the Bible as a political text. Includes discussion of the political context and themes of the Bible and analysis of political theories based upon biblical perspectives. (3-0) R
PSCI 4331 Mexican Politics (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the changing face of the Mexican political economy. Topics will include the evolution and decline of the PRI, the revolt in Chiapas, NAFTA, Mexico's role in Latin America, and the changing nature of its relations with the U.S. (3-0) T
PSCI 4332 Latin American Politics (3 semester credit hours) After a brief review of the region's history from conquest and independence up to the twentieth century, the course will include discussions of current issues confronting the region. These issues may include U.S./Latin American relations including NAFTA, demographic changes, religion, guerilla groups, revolution, and the transition from authoritarianism to democracy. (3-0) T
PSCI 4334 Approaches to Peace (3 semester credit hours) This course offers an introductory survey of the various approaches to peace. It begins by looking at the problem of violence and war from a variety of perspectives. The two main sections of the course are then organized according to the major distinction between "negative peace" (the absence of war or violence - conflict management) and "positive peace" (justice, dispute resolution, reconciliation - conflict resolution). Mechanisms to achieve both kinds of peace are explored, with special attention to their underlying assumptions about human behavior and their limitations. Although the focus is primarily directed to the international level, applications to the national and local levels are occasionally referenced as well. (3-0) R
PSCI 4341 Politics of the Judicial Process (3 semester credit hours) The study of judicial decision making, the political impact of court decisions, and the role of lawyers and judges at the local, regional, and national levels. (3-0) T
PSCI 4343 Congress and Public Policy (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the history and development of both the place of Congress in the Constitutional order and the internal structures and behaviors of the legislative process. Topics include congressional-presidential relations, elections, representation, committees, parties and leadership, collective action and coalition building, and Congress' capacity to deliberate and make public policy "in the public interest." (3-0) T
PSCI 4344 Race and Redistricting (3 semester credit hours) Examines the politics and process of redrawing congressional and state legislative district lines, notably how this process is influenced by politics as well as by important principles and laws. Reviews the history of redistricting in the U.S. House of Representatives and considers recent redistricting and the role of race in this process. (3-0) R
PSCI 4347 The War on Drugs (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the war on drugs within the context of democratic stability. Alternative state responses to the drug trade will be covered, with attention to the consequences of those policies on democratic stability. Substantively, we will deal with these questions within the context of individual democracies in Latin America and in other regions. (3-0) T
PSCI 4348 Terrorism (3 semester credit hours) This course, focusing on cases of domestic terrorism, examines terrorism within the context of democratic stability. Alternative state responses to these crises will also be covered, with attention to the consequences of those policies on democratic stability. Substantively, we will deal with these questions within the context of individual democracies in Latin America and in other regions of the world. (3-0) T
PSCI 4354 Contemporary Political Thought (3 semester credit hours) Investigates the moral and political controversies shaping contemporary political thought. Considers such issues as legitimacy, justice, distribution, and representation. (3-0) R
PSCI 4356 International Political Economy (3 semester credit hours) Focuses on the interaction of global politics and economics, including international trade, the underpinnings of international currency exchange, multinational corporations, globalization, and other topics. Prerequisite: PSCI 3328 or PSCI 4329 or undergraduate coursework in international economics. (3-0) R
PSCI 4357 Human Rights (3 semester credit hours) This course focuses on the development of norms involving international human rights and law as well as major and competing theories that sometimes weigh against the development of universal human rights. Also examines the effectiveness of the courts and law, including international courts and truth commissions, in the area of human rights. (3-0) R
PSCI 4359 International Conflict (3 semester credit hours) This course examines the conditions that promote war and peace between states. Topics include all aspects of international conflict, from its onset to its termination, as well as conflict management attempts by warring and external actors. Readings will come from both the quantitative and qualitative literatures, and students will learn how to read and analyze scientific studies on international conflict. (3-0) T
PSCI 4360 The Political Economy of Multinational Corporations (3 semester credit hours) In addition to the historical rise of international firms, the course covers the economic theory of the firm, multinational corporations (MNCs) as political actors, the dynamics of foreign direct investment, and the relationship of MNCs to developing countries. The aim of the course is to understand the causes and effects of the behavior of transnational corporations, particularly in regard to economic policy. (3-0) T
PSCI 4363 International Law (3 semester credit hours) This course analyzes the concepts and bases of public international law. The first part of the course explores the operating system components of international law, namely how the law sets the general procedures and institutions for the conduct of international relations. In effect, international law provides the mechanisms for establishing rules, outlines the parameters of interaction, and provides the procedures and forums for resolving disputes among the relevant actors in international interactions. Topics in this section of the course include sources, actors, and institutions of international law. The second part of the course focuses on international law as a normative system. This signifies the specific standards and rules by which international relations are supposed to be conducted. If the operating system designates the structures (in a loose sense) that help define the global governance system, then the normative element provides the specific laws or policies that are the subjects or products of those structures. Topics in this section of the course include the use of force, human rights, and environmental protection. (3-0) R
PSCI 4364 Civil Rights Law and Society (3 semester credit hours) Examines the development of civil rights law, and how social ideologies are reflected and reproduced in race and sex discrimination law. Explores how power is exercised through law, and how legal change is pursued as a strategy for social reform. Topics include antislavery and the judicial process, the Reconstruction Amendments, the role of the Supreme Court in U.S. society, school segregation cases, and hate speech. (3-0) Y
PSCI 4370 Policy Making Process (3 semester credit hours) A multidisciplinary exploration of the history, ideas, and institutions that set the stage for politics. This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. Director of Archer Program consent required. (3-0) R
PSCI 4372 Advocacy and Politics (3 semester credit hours) This is a course on communication and advocacy. Students examine how people make cases for their needs in organizations, especially governmental and political ones. This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. Director of Archer Program consent required. (3-0) R
PSCI 4373 Politics of National Memory (3 semester credit hours) This course explores the sources and use of power in Washington. It focuses attention upon such issues as the constitutional and technological limits to power, power and the media, and the struggle for control over national memory and language. This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. Director of Archer Program consent required. (3-0) R
PSCI 4374 Policy Making in Austin (3 semester credit hours) A multidisciplinary exploration of the history, ideas, and institutions that set the stage for Texas politics and policymaking in the state legislature. This course is part of the Texas Legislative Internship Program and is restricted to Texas Legislative Internship Program Fellows. Director of Texas Legislative Internship Program consent required. (3-0) T
PSCI 4375 Advocacy in the State Legislature (3 semester credit hours) This is a course on communication, advocacy, and leadership. Students will develop communication and leadership skills to assist them in their internships. This course is part of the Texas Legislative Internship Program and is restricted to Texas Legislative Internship Program Fellows. Director of Texas Legislative Internship Program consent required. (3-0) T
PSCI 4376 Foreign Policy and Public Opinion (3 semester credit hours) This course considers the themes of intervention and isolation, and of pragmatism and prudence, in government making of and in public opinion about foreign policy. Topics involve the domestic and international sources and consequences of government making of foreign policy, as well as of public opinion about foreign policy, including the effects of foreign policy on public opinion and of public opinion on foreign policy, in terms of restraining or supporting government actions, in times of peace and of war. (Same as IPEC 4376) (3-0) T
PSCI 4377 Women and Politics (3 semester credit hours) This course describes, explains, and evaluates the meanings of politics and the private-public distinction involving politics; the participation of women in politics as voters and candidates in elections and as leaders in legislative, executive and other offices; and the consequences of women's participation for gender equity, political representation, and public policy. (3-0) T
PSCI 4378 Migration, Refugee and Asylum Policy and Law (3 semester credit hours) This course will introduce students to international and U.S. migration, asylum and refugee policy and law. The course will explore the broad issue of international migration and its effects. It will also examine the development and expansion of the international rights and protections in regard to forced migration, asylum and refugee issues. The course will explore U.S. policy and law on these issues in comparison with other receiving states. Students will be introduced to a growing body of relevant empirical research. (3-0) T
PSCI 4396 Selected Topics in Government and Politics (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) R
PSCI 4398 Texas Legislative Internship (3 semester credit hours) This course is part of the Texas Legislative Internship Program and is restricted to Texas Legislative Internship Program Fellows. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Director of Texas Legislative Internship Program consent required. (3-0) T
PSCI 4V65 Undergraduate Research in Political Science (1-6 semester credit hours) Subject and scope to be determined on an individual basis. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) R
PSCI 4V66 Mock Trial (1-6 semester credit hours) Examines a hypothetical case. Students will learn the Rules of Evidence and will simulate an actual trial with attorneys and witnesses. Students compete with Mock Trial teams from other universities at regional and national tournaments. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) Y
PSCI 4V67 Moot Court (1-6 semester credit hours) Course examines a hypothetical case which contains two constitutional issues. Based on approximately 20 actual precedents, students are expected to prepare arguments supporting both the petitioner and respondents on each constitutional issue. Students compete in tournaments against advocates from other universities. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PSCI 4V76 Archer Center Washington Internship (3-6 semester credit hours) This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Director of Archer Program consent required. ([3-6]-0) R
PSCI 4V97 Independent Study in Government and Politics (1-6 semester credit hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PSCI 4V98 Internship (1-6 semester credit hours) Credit/No Credit only. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S
PSCI 4V99 Senior Honors in Government and Politics (1-6 semester credit hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) S